<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="578"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Agent Tcl: Alpha Release 1.1 <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Robert S. Gray <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>Dartmouth College <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Hanover, NH 03755 <lb/></address>
		<email>E-mail: robert.s.gray@dartmouth.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>December 1, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Agent Tcl is a transportable agent system. The agents are written in an extended version of the <lb/>Tool Command Lanuage (Tcl). Each agent can suspend its execution at an arbitrary point, transport <lb/>to another machine and resume execution on the new machine. This migration is accomplished with <lb/>the agent jump command. agent jump captures the current state of the Tcl script and transfers this <lb/>state to the destination machine. The state is restored on the new machine and the Tcl script continues <lb/>its execution from the command immediately after the agent jump. In addition to migration, agents <lb/>can send messages to each other and can establish direct connections. A direct connection is more <lb/>efficient than message passing for bulk data transfer. Finally, agents can use the Tk toolkit to create <lb/>graphical user interfaces on their current machine. Agent Tcl is implemented as two components. The <lb/>first component is an extended Tcl interpreter. The second component is a server which runs on each <lb/>machine. The server accepts incoming agents, messages and connection requests and keeps track of the <lb/>agents that are running on its machine. An alpha release of Agent Tcl is available for public use. This <lb/>documentation describes how to obtain and compile the source code, how to run the server and how to <lb/>write transportable agents. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">Supported by AFOSR contract F49620-93-1-0266 and ONR contract N00014-95-1-1204 <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>