<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="755"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 8 (1998) 165-222 Submitted 8/97; published 6/98 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Model-Based Diagnosis using Structured System <lb/>Descriptions <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Adnan Darwiche</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>darwiche@aub.edu.lb <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Mathematics <lb/>American University of Beirut <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>PO Box 11-236 <lb/>Beirut, Lebanon <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper presents a comprehensive approach for model-based diagnosis which includes proposals for characterizing and computing preferred diagnoses, assuming that the <lb/>system description is augmented with a system structure (a directed graph explicating the <lb/>interconnections between system components). Specifically, we first introduce the notion of <lb/>a consequence, which is a syntactically unconstrained propositional sentence that characterizes all consistency-based diagnoses and show that standard characterizations of diagnoses, <lb/>such as minimal conflicts, correspond to syntactic variations on a consequence. Second, <lb/>we propose a new syntactic variation on the consequence known as negation normal form <lb/>(NNF) and discuss its merits compared to standard variations. Third, we introduce a basic <lb/>algorithm for computing consequences in NNF given a structured system description. We <lb/>show that if the system structure does not contain cycles, then there is always a linear-size <lb/>consequence in NNF which can be computed in linear time. For arbitrary system structures, we show a precise connection between the complexity of computing consequences <lb/>and the topology of the underlying system structure. Finally, we present an algorithm <lb/>that enumerates the preferred diagnoses characterized by a consequence. The algorithm is <lb/>shown to take linear time in the size of the consequence if the preference criterion satisfies <lb/>some general conditions. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>