<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1008"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<idno>arXiv:0807.2262v1 [astro-ph]</idno>
		<date>14 Jul 2008 <lb/></date>
		<note type="other">Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics manuscript no. paper <lb/></note>
		<note type="copyright">c ESO 2008 <lb/></note>
		<date>July 14, 2008 <lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Simulating polarized Galactic synchrotron emission at all <lb/>frequencies <lb/>the Hammurabi code <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>A. Waelkens 1 ,?  , T. Jaffe 2 , M. Reinecke 1 , F. S. Kitaura 1 , T. A. Enßlin 1 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1 Max Planck Institut für Astrophysik (MPA),</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Karl-Schwarzschildstr. 1, 85741 Garching, Germany <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: waelkens@mpa-garching.mpg.de <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>2 Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics, University of Manchester,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Alan Turing Building, Oxford Road, Manchester, M13 9PL, UK <lb/></address>
		<note type="other">Received Month ??, ????; accepted Month ??, ????</note>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/> Context.  Galactic synchrotron emission, rotation measure (RM) and the deflection of ultra-high-energy-cosmic-rays (UHECR) permit <lb/> detailed studies of the Galactic magnetic field (GMF). The synchrotron emission has also to be measured in order to be separated <lb/> from other astrophysicaly interesting signals like the CMB. <lb/> Aims.  We present a publicly available code called hammurabi for generating mock polarized observations of Galactic synchrotron <lb/> emission for telescopes like LOFAR, SKA, Planck and WMAP, based on model inputs for the GMF, the cosmic-ray density distribu- <lb/> tion and the thermal electron density. We also present mock UHECR deflection measure (UDM) maps based on model inputs for the <lb/> GMF. In future, when UHECR sources are identified, this will allow us to define UDM as a GMF probe in a similar way as polarized <lb/> radio sources permit us to define rotation measures. <lb/> Methods.  To demonstrate the code&apos;s abilities mock observations are compared to real data as a means to constrain the input parame- <lb/> ters of our simulations with a focus on large-scale magnetic field properties. <lb/> Results.  The Galactic magnetic field models in the literature seem to fail to reproduce any additional observational data which was <lb/> not included in their design. <lb/> Conclusions.  As expected, attempts at trying to model the synchrotron, UHECR deflection and RM input parameters, show that any <lb/> additional observational data set greatly increases the constraints on the models. The hammurabi code addresses this by allowing to <lb/> perform simulations of several different data sets simultaneously, providing the means for a more reliable constraint of the magnetized <lb/> inter-stellar-medium. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words.  Radio continuum: ISM ? ISM: mangetic fields ? ISM: cosmic rays <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>