<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="659"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Intelligent Model Selection for Hillclimbing Search in <lb/>Computer-Aided Design <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Thomas Ellman John Keane Mark Schwabacher <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science, Hill Center for Mathematical Sciences <lb/>Rutgers University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>New Brunswick, NJ 08903 <lb/></address>
		<email>{ellman,keane,schwabac}@cs.rutgers.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Models of physical systems can differ according to <lb/>computational cost, accuracy and precision, among <lb/>other things. Depending on the problem solving <lb/>task at hand, different models will be appropriate. Several investigators have recently developed <lb/>methods of automatically selecting among multiple models of physical systems. Our research is <lb/>novel in that we are developing model selection <lb/>techniques specifically suited to computer-aided de <lb/>sign. Our approach is based on the idea that artifact performance models for computer-aided design <lb/>should be chosen in light of the design decisions <lb/>they are required to support. We have developed <lb/>a technique called &quot;Gradient Magnitude Model Selection&quot; (GMMS), which embodies this principle. <lb/>GMMS operates in the context of a hillclimbing <lb/>search process. It selects the simplest model that <lb/>meets the needs of the hillclimbing algorithm in <lb/>which it operates. We are using the domain of sailing yacht design as a testbed for this research. We <lb/>have implemented GMMS and used it in hillclimb-ing search to decide between a computationally expensive potential-flow program and an algebraic <lb/>approximation to analyze the performance of sailing yachts. Experimental tests show that GMMS <lb/>makes the design process faster than it would be if <lb/>the most expensive model were used for all design <lb/>evaluations. GMMS achieves this performance improvement with little or no sacrifice in the quality <lb/>of the resulting design. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>