<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To appear in Proceedings of the Second International Conference on AI Planning Systems (1994). Chicago: AAAI Press. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Reactive and Automatic Behavior in Plan Execution <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Pat Langley Wayne Iba Jeff Shrager <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Robotics Laboratory Recom Technologies Palo Alto Research Center <lb/>Computer Science Dept.</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Mail Stop 269-2</address>
		<byline><affiliation>Xerox Corporation <lb/>Stanford University NASA Ames Research Center</affiliation></byline>
		<address>3333 Coyote Hill Road <lb/>Stanford, CA 94305 Moffett Field, CA 94035 Palo Alto, CA 94304 <lb/></address>
		<email>langley@cs.stanford.edu </email> <email>iba@wind.arc.nasa.gov </email> <email>shrager@xerox.com <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Much of the work on execution assumes that the agent <lb/>constantly senses the environment, which lets it respond <lb/>immediately to errors or unexpected events. In this paper, we argue that this purely reactive strategy is only <lb/>optimal if sensing is inexpensive, and we formulate a simple model of execution that incorporates the cost of sensing. We present an average-case analysis of this model, <lb/>which shows that in domains with high sensing cost or <lb/>low probability of error, a more `automatic&apos; strategy - <lb/>one with long intervals between sensing can lead to <lb/>less expensive execution. The analysis also shows that <lb/>the distance to the goal has no effect on the optimal sensing interval. These results run counter to the prevailing <lb/>wisdom in the planning community, but they promise a <lb/>more balanced approach to the interleaving of execution <lb/>and sensing. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Reactive and Automatic Execution</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>