<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="464"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Clustering Methods for Collaborative Filtering <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Lyle H. Ungar and Dean P. Foster <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>CIS Dept. and Dept. of Statistics <lb/>University of Pennsylvania <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Philadelphia, PA 19104 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Grouping people into clusters based on the items they have purchased allows accurate recommendations of new items for purchase: <lb/>if you and I have liked many of the same movies, then I will probably enjoy other movies that you like. Recommending items based <lb/>on similarity of interest (a.k.a. collaborative filtering) is attractive <lb/>for many domains: books, CDs, movies, etc., but does not always <lb/>work well. Because data are always sparse any given person has <lb/>seen only a small fraction of all movies much more accurate predictions can be made by grouping people into clusters with similar <lb/>movies and grouping movies into clusters which tend to be liked by <lb/>the same people. Finding optimal clusters is tricky because the movie <lb/>groups should be used to help determine the people groups and visa <lb/>versa. We present a formal statistical model of collaborative filtering, <lb/>and compare different algorithms for estimating the model parameters <lb/>including variations of K-means clustering and Gibbs Sampling. This <lb/>formal model is easily extended to handle clustering of objects with <lb/>multiple attributes. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: collaborative filtering, clustering, EM, Gibbs sampling <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">Email address of contact author:</note>
		<email>ungar@cis.upenn.edu <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">Phone number of contact author:</note>
		<note type="phone">215 898-7449 <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">What is Collaborative Filtering? <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>