<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="509"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">How good are genetic algorithms at finding <lb/>large cliques: an experimental study <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Bob Carter <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>carter@cs.bu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Kihong Park <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>park@cs.bu.edu <lb/></email>
		<idno>BU-CS-93-015 <lb/></idno>
		<date>October 10, 1993 <lb/></date>
		<byline><affiliation>Boston University <lb/>Computer Science Department <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Boston, MA 02215 <lb/></address>
		<note type="phone">Phone: 617 353-8919 <lb/>Fax: 617 353-6457 <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper investigates the power of genetic algorithms at solving the MAX-CLIQUE problem. We measure the performance of a standard genetic algorithm on an elementary set of <lb/>problem instances consisting of embedded cliques in random graphs. We indicate the need <lb/>for improvement, and introduce a new genetic algorithm, the multi-phase annealed GA, which <lb/>exhibits superior performance on the same problem set. <lb/>As we scale up the problem size and test on &quot;hard&quot; benchmark instances, we notice a <lb/>degraded performance in the algorithm caused by premature convergence to local minima. To <lb/>alleviate this problem, a sequence of modifications are implemented ranging from changes in <lb/>input representation to systematic local search. The most recent version, called union GA, <lb/>incorporates the features of union cross-over, greedy replacement, and diversity enhancement. <lb/>It shows a marked speed-up in the number of iterations required to find a given solution, as well <lb/>as some improvement in the clique size found. <lb/>We discuss issues related to the SIMD implementation of the genetic algorithms on a Thinking Machines CM-5, which was necessitated by the intrinsically high time complexity (O(n 3 )) <lb/>of the serial algorithm for computing one iteration. <lb/>Our preliminary conclusions are: (1) a genetic algorithm needs to be heavily customized to <lb/>work &quot;well&quot; for the clique problem; (2) a GA is computationally very expensive, and its use is <lb/>only recommended if it is known to find larger cliques than other algorithms; (3) although our <lb/>customization effort is bringing forth continued improvements, there is no clear evidence, at this <lb/>time, that a GA will have better success in circumventing local minima. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">Part of this research was presented at the </note><note type="reference">2nd DIMACS Implementation Challenge on Combinatorial Optimiza <lb/>tion, DIMACS, October, 1993. <lb/></note>
		<note type="grant">Supported in part by NSF grant CCR-9204284 <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>