<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="270"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Abstract apearing in Procedings of the 27th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing,</note>
		<date>May195. <lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Incremental Cryptography and Application to Virus Protection <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Mihir Bellare Oded Goldreich Shafi Goldwasser <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The goal of incremental cryptography is to design cryptographic algorithms with the property that having applied <lb/>the algorithm to a document, it is possible to quickly update <lb/>the result of the algorithm for a modified document, rather <lb/>than having to re-compute it from scratch. In settings where <lb/>cryptographic algorithms such as encryption or signatures <lb/>are frequently applied to changing documents, dramatic efficiency improvements can be achieved. One such setting is <lb/>the use of authentication tags for virus protection. <lb/>We consider documents that can be modified by powerful (and realistic) document modification operations such as <lb/>insertion and deletion of character-strings (or equivalently <lb/>cut and paste of text). We provide efficient incremental <lb/>signature and message authentication schemes supporting <lb/>the above document modification operations. They meet a <lb/>strong notion of tamper-proof security which is appropriate <lb/>for the virus protection setting. We initiate a study of incremental encryption, providing definitions as well as solutions. <lb/>Finally, we raise the novel issue of &quot;privacy&quot; of incremental <lb/>authentication schemes. <lb/></div>
		<note type="reference">Abstract to appear in Proceedings of the 27th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing, May 1995. <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>