<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="399"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Task Driven Perceptual Organization for Extraction of Rooftop <lb/>Polygons <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Christopher Jaynes Frank Stolle Robert Collins <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>University of Massachusetts <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Amherst, MA 01003 <lb/></address>
		<email>Email: @cs.umass.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A new method for extracting planar polygonal rooftops in monocular aerial imagery is proposed. Through bottom-up and top-down construction of perceptual groups, polygons in a <lb/>single aerial image can be robustly extracted. <lb/>Orthogonal corners and lines are extracted and <lb/>hierarchically related using perceptual grouping techniques. Top-down feature verification is <lb/>used so that features, and links between the features, are verified with local information in the <lb/>image and weighed in a graph structure according to the underlying support for each feature. <lb/>Cycles in the graph correspond to possible <lb/>building rooftop hypotheses. Virtual features <lb/>are hypothesized for the perceptual completion <lb/>of partial rooftops. Extraction of the &quot;best&quot; <lb/>grouping of features into a building rooftop hypothesis is posed as a graph search problem. <lb/>The maximally weighted, independent set of cycles in the graph is extracted as the final set of <lb/>roof boundaries. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>