<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1051"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">SINAI at ImageCLEFmed 2008 <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>M.C. Daz-Galiano, M.A. Garca-Cumbreras, M.T. Martn-Valdivia, <lb/> L.A. Ureña-López, A. Montejo-Ráez <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Jaén. Computer Science Department <lb/> Grupo Sistemas Inteligentes de Acceso a la Información <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Campus Las Lagunillas, Ed. A3, E-23071, Jaén, Spain <lb/></address>
		<email>{mcdiaz,magc,maite,laurena,amontejo}@ujaen.es <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>  This paper describes the SINAI team participation in the ImageCLEF campaign. <lb/> In this paper we only explain the experiments accomplished in the medical task. <lb/> We have experimented with query expansion and the text information of the collection. <lb/> For expansion, we carry out experiments using MeSH ontology and UMLS separately. <lb/> With respect to text collection, we have used three different collections, one with <lb/> caption and title, other with caption, title and the text of the section where the image <lb/> appears, and the third with the full article. Moreover, we have experimented with <lb/> mixed search, textual and visual search, using the FIRE software for image retrieval. <lb/> The use of FIRE and MeSH expansion with the minimal collection (only caption <lb/> and title) obtains the best results in the track. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Categories and Subject Descriptors <lb/>  H.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: H.3.1 Content Analysis and Indexing; H.3.3 Infor- <lb/> mation Search and Retrieval; H.3.4 Systems and Software <lb/>  Keywords <lb/>  Visual and textual retrieval, Indexing, Ontologies, MeSH, UMLS <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>