<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="378"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Motion Recovery From Image Sequences: Discrete Viewpoint vs. <lb/>Differential Viewpoint <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Yi Ma Jana Kosecka Shankar Sastry x <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Electronics Research Laboratory <lb/>University of California at Berkeley <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Berkeley, CA 94720-1774 <lb/></address>
		<email>fmayi, janka, sastryg@robotics.eecs.berkeley.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>November 3, 1997 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The aim of this paper is to explore intrinsic geometric methods of recovering the three <lb/>dimensional motion of a moving camera from a sequence of images. Generic similarities between <lb/>the discrete approach and the differential approach are revealed through a parallel development <lb/>of their analogous motion estimation theories. <lb/>We begin with a brief review of the (discrete) essential matrix approach, showing how to <lb/>recover the 3D displacement from image correspondences. The space of normalized essential <lb/>matrices is characterized geometrically: the unit tangent bundle of the rotation group is a <lb/>double covering of the space of normalized essential matrices. This characterization naturally <lb/>explains the geometry of the possible number of 3D displacements which can be obtained from <lb/>the essential matrix. <lb/>Second, a differential version of the essential matrix constraint previously explored by [19, 20] <lb/>is introduced. We then present the precise characterization of the space of differential essential <lb/>matrices, which gives rise to a novel eigenvector-decomposition-based 3D velocity estimation <lb/>algorithm from the optical flow measurements. This algorithm gives a unique solution to the <lb/>motion estimation problem and serves as a differential counterpart of the SVD-based 3D displacement estimation algorithm from the discrete case. <lb/>Finally, simulation results are presented evaluating the performance of our algorithm in terms <lb/>of bias and sensitivity of the estimates with respect to the noise in optical flow measurements. <lb/>The presented unifying theory of the motion estimation using discrete and differential version of the Longuet-Higgins (essential) constraint can be extended to the case of uncalibrated <lb/>cameras. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: optical flow, epipolar constraint, motion estimation. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">Research is supported by ARO under the MURI grant DAAH04-96-1-0341, &quot;An Integrated Approach to Intelligent <lb/>Systems&quot;. <lb/></note>
		<address>Address: 211-109 Cory Hall, EECS, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720-1772, USA.</address>
		<note type="phone">Tel: (USA) 510-643-2383. <lb/></note>
		<address>Address: 211- 98 Cory Hall, EECS, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720-1772, USA.</address>
		<note type="phone">Tel: (USA) 510-643-5806. <lb/></note>
		<address>x Address: 269M Cory Hall, EECS, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720-1772, USA.</address>
		<note type="phone">Tel: (USA) 510-642-1857. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>