<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="430"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Kin Recognition, Similarity, and Group Behavior <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Maja J Mataric <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>545 Technology Square #721 <lb/>Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<note type="phone">phone: (617) 253-8839 <lb/></note>
		<note type="phone">fax: (617) 253-0039 <lb/></note>
		<email>maja@ai.mit.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper presents an approach to describing <lb/>group behavior using simple local interactions <lb/>among individuals. We propose that for a given <lb/>domain a set of basic interactions can be defined <lb/>which describes a large variety of group behaviors. <lb/>The methodology we present allows for simplified <lb/>qualitative analysis of group behavior through the <lb/>use of shared goals, kin recognition, and minimal <lb/>communication. We also demonstrate how these <lb/>basic interactions can be simply combined into <lb/>more complex compound group behaviors. <lb/>To validate our approach we implemented an array of basic group behaviors in the domain of spatial interactions among homogeneous agents. We <lb/>describe some of the experimental results from two <lb/>distinct domains: a software environment, and a <lb/>collection of 20 mobile robots. We also describe <lb/>a compound behavior involving a combination of <lb/>the basic interactions. Finally, we compare the <lb/>performance of homogeneous groups to those of <lb/>dominance hierarchies on the same set of basic behaviors. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>