<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="75"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The Extruded Generalized Cylinder: A Deformable Model for <lb/>Object Recovery <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Thomas O&apos;Donnell ? Xi-Sheng Fang ? <lb/>Terrence E. Boult ? Alok Gupta <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>? Dept. of Computer Science Siemens Corporate Research, Inc. <lb/> Columbia University</affiliation></byline>
		<address>755 College Road East <lb/>New York, N.Y. 10027 Princeton, N.J. 08540 <lb/></address>
		<email>Email: odonnell@cs.columbia.edu </email> <email>alok@scr.siemens.com <lb/></email>
		<date>February 12, 1997 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>There is increasing interest in the recovery of generalized cylinders (GCs) with curved spines. However, <lb/>existing formulations of such GCs, for example those <lb/>based on the Frenet-Serret frame or the tube model, <lb/>suffer serious drawbacks: discontinuities, a lack of expressive power, &quot;narrowing&quot; in the plane normal to <lb/>the spine, non-intuitive twisting behavior, and/or off-axis nonorthogonality of their local coordinate systems. <lb/>We discuss some of the problems associated with the <lb/>non-orthogonality of the coordinate system based on <lb/>the Frenet-Serret frame. This non-orthogonality is induced by torsion effects and we show how to correct for <lb/>it. We then introduce a new model, the extruded GC <lb/>(EGC) model, which overcomes all the problems mentioned above. For complex axes, the EGC model is also <lb/>simpler to understand and use than existing models. <lb/>The EGC model is further extended by including local surface deformations. Recovery of the deformable <lb/>EGC via a physically-motivated paradigm is demonstrated on pre-segmented data from a human carotid <lb/>artery. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction and Previous</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>