<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="702"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Efficiently Supporting Ad Hoc Queries in Large Datasets of Time <lb/>Sequences <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Flip Korn <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer Science <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>flip@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>H. V. Jagadish <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>AT&amp;T Laboratories <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Florham Park, NJ 07932 <lb/></address>
		<email>jag@research.att.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Christos Faloutsos <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer Science and <lb/>Inst. for Systems Research <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>christos@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Ad hoc querying is difficult on very large datasets, since it <lb/>is usually not possible to have the entire dataset on disk. <lb/>While compression can be used to decrease the size of the <lb/>dataset, compressed data is notoriously difficult to index <lb/>or access. <lb/>In this paper we consider a very large dataset comprising multiple distinct time sequences. Each point in the <lb/>sequence is a numerical value. We show how to compress <lb/>such a dataset into a format that supports ad hoc querying, provided that a small error can be tolerated when the <lb/>data is uncompressed. Experiments on large, real world <lb/>datasets (AT&amp;T customer calling patterns) show that the <lb/>proposed method achieves an average of less than 5% error <lb/>in any data value after compressing to a mere 2.5% of the <lb/>original space (i.e., a 40:1 compression ratio), with these <lb/>numbers not very sensitive to dataset size. Experiments <lb/>on aggregate queries achieved a 0.5% reconstruction error <lb/>with a space requirement under 2%. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>