<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1057"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<idno>DOI: 10.1002/zaac.200700542 <lb/></idno>
		<note type="other">Forschungsbericht Research Report <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Zur Problematik individueller thermodynamischer Aktivitätskoeffizienten<lb/> einzelner Ionensorten in Elektrolytlösungen hoher Konzentration  1) <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">On the Individual Thermodynamic Activity Coefficients of Single Ion Species <lb/> in Electrolyte Solutions at High Concentrations 1) <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Armin Ferse* <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<address>Dresden,</address>
		<byline><affiliation>Technische Universität <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<date>Bei der Redaktion eingegangen am 10. Oktober 2007. <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. The individual activity coefficients of the single ion spec- <lb/> ies, which are produced by dissociation of aqueous electrolytes, are <lb/> necessary for the thermodynamic treatment of equilibrations and <lb/> processes involving electrolytes. The determination of these values <lb/> is one of the basic quests of electrochemistry and a controversial <lb/> topic. This problem is unsolvable using classical thermodynamics. <lb/> In this paper a mathematical method is shown, which can be used <lb/> to split the mean activity coefficients into the values for the individ- <lb/> ual ion species of an electrolyte. For this determination the mean <lb/> activity coefficients have to be expressed in the power form of equa- <lb/> tion. The concept based on the adaptation of a product function <lb/> for the concentration development of the mean activity coefficients <lb/> to the experimental data and their separation into factor functions <lb/> of a predefined structure, which represent the concentration devel- <lb/> opment of the individual activity coefficients of the single ion spec- <lb/> ies of the electrolyte. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Electrochemistry; Electrolyte solutions; Individual ac- <lb/> tivity coefficients; Non-linear regression model; Thermodynamics <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Einleitung <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>