<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="268"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Expert Systems and Neural Networks <lb/>(AIE96), pp. 11-14, 1996. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Instance-Based Learning with Genetically Derived Attribute Weights <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>D. Randall Wilson, Tony R. Martinez <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>e-mail: randy@axon.cs.byu.edu, </email> <email>martinez@cs.byu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department, Brigham Young University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Provo, UT 84602, U.S.A. <lb/></address>
		<keywords>Key words: instance-based learning, genetic algorithms, instance weights, generalization <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. This paper presents an inductive learning system called the Genetic Instance-Based <lb/>Learning (GIBL) system. This system combines instance-based learning approaches with <lb/>evolutionary computation in order to achieve high accuracy in the presence of irrelevant or <lb/>redundant attributes. Evolutionary computation is used to find a set of attribute weights that <lb/>yields a high estimate of classification accuracy. Results of experiments on 16 data sets are <lb/>shown, and are compared with a non-weighted version of the instance-based learning system. <lb/>The results indicate that the generalization accuracy of GIBL is somewhat higher than that of the <lb/>non-weighted system on regular data, and is significantly higher on data with irrelevant or <lb/>redundant attributes. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>