<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="156"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The Cassowary Linear Arithmetic Constraint Solving <lb/>Algorithm: Interface and Implementation <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Greg J. Badros Alan Borning <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<idno>Technical Report UW-CSE-98-06-04 <lb/></idno>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science and Engineering <lb/>University of Washington <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Box 352350, Seattle, WA 98195-2350 USA <lb/></address>
		<email>fgjb,borningg@cs.washington.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>29 June 1998 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Linear equality and inequality constraints arise naturally in specifying many aspects of user <lb/>interfaces, such as requiring that one window be to the left of another, requiring that a pane <lb/>occupy the leftmost 1/3 of a window, or preferring that an object be contained within a rectangle if possible. Current constraint solvers designed for UI applications cannot efficiently <lb/>handle simultaneous linear equations and inequalities. This is a major limitation. We describe <lb/>Cassowary|an incremental algorithm based on the dual simplex method that can solve such <lb/>systems of constraints efficiently. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">This informal technical report describes the latest version of the Cassowary algorithm. It is <lb/>derived from the paper &quot;Solving Linear Arithmetic Constraints for User Interface Applications&quot; <lb/>by Alan Borning, Kim Marriott, Peter Stuckey, and Yi Xiao [7], published in the UIST&apos;97 <lb/>Proceedings. The UIST paper also contains a description of QOCA, a closely related solver <lb/>that finds least-squares solutions to linear constraints. This technical report, which is intended <lb/>to be self-contained, includes material on Cassowary from the UIST paper, plus a description <lb/>of the Java, C++, and Smalltalk implementations and their interfaces. along with additional <lb/>details, corrections, and clarifications. <lb/>An earlier technical report also discussed QOCA and the similarities between Cassowary and <lb/>that algorithm [6]. <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>