<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1105"/>  
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>
	
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Three  distinct modes in a cold atmospheric<lb/> pressure plasma jet<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor> J. L. Walsh  1  , F. Iza  1  , N. B. Janson  2  , V. Law  3  , and M. G. Kong  1 * <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>1  Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Loughborough University, </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> UK  <lb/></address> 
		
		<byline><affiliation> 2  School of Mathematics, Loughborough University,  </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> UK <lb/></address>
				
		<byline><affiliation> 3  National Centre for Plasma Science and Technology, Dublin City University, </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> Ireland<lb/></address>
				
		<div type="abstract">Abstract<lb/>  Cold atmospheric pressure helium plasma jets are increasingly used in many processing<lb/> applications, due to a distinct combination of their inherent plasma stability with<lb/> excellent reaction chemistry often enhanced downstream. Despite their widespread<lb/> usage, it remains largely unknown whether cold atmospheric plasma jets maintain<lb/> similar characteristics from breakdown to arcing or whether they possess different<lb/> operating modes. In addition to their known ability to produce a fast moving train of<lb/> discrete luminous clusters along the jet length, commonly known as plasma bullets, this<lb/> paper reports evidence of two additional modes of operation, namely a chaotic mode<lb/> and a continuous mode in an atmospheric helium plasma jet. Through detailed<lb/> electrical and optical characterisation, it is shown that immediately following breakdown<lb/> the plasma jet operates in a deterministic chaotic mode. With increasing input power,<lb/> the discharge becomes periodic and the jet plasma is found to produce at least one<lb/> strong plasma bullet every cycle of the applied voltage. Further increase in input power<lb/> eventually leads to the continuous mode in which excited species are seen to remain<lb/> within the inter-electrode space throughout the entire cycle of the applied voltage.<lb/> Transition from the chaotic, through the bullet, to the continuous modes is abrupt and<lb/>  distinct, with each mode having a unique set of operating characteristics. For the bullet<lb/> mode, direct evidence is presented to demonstrate that the evolution of the plasma jet<lb/> involves a repeated sequence of generation, collapse and regeneration of the plasma<lb/> head occurring at locations progressively towards the instantaneous cathode. These<lb/> offer previously unavailable insight into plasma jet formation mechanisms and the<lb/> potential of matching plasma jet modes to specific needs of a given processing<lb/> application. <lb/></div> 

		<keywords>  <lb/></keywords>		 

		<note> *<lb/> Author to whom correspondence should be addressed; </note> 
		
		<email> e-mail: m.g.kong@lboro.ac.uk<lb/></email>

  		<introduction>1.  Introduction: <lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              