<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="205"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<byline><affiliation>INTERNATIONAL COMPUTER SCIENCE INSTITUTE <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>I 1947 Center St. * Suite 600 * Berkeley, California 94704-1198 *</address>
		<note type="phone">(510) 643-9153 * FAX (510) 643-7684 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Managing ABR Capacity in <lb/>Reservation-based Slotted <lb/>Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Roya Ulrich and Pieter Kritzinger <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>fulrich@icsi.berkeley.edu, </email> <email>psk@cs.uct.ac.zag <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>The Networks Group <lb/>International Computer Science Institute, and <lb/>The Computer Science Depatrment <lb/>University of Cape Town <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<idno>TR-96-006 <lb/></idno>
		<date>January 1996 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>For slotted networks carrying full multi-media traffic to work successfully, it is essential that connection setup and management is done well under all traffic conditions. <lb/>Major challenges remain with the current state of the technology, however, particularly on how one copes with traffic bursts. Existing reservation-based networks do not <lb/>allow the user to dynamically adjust his bandwidth requirements on demand. In this <lb/>paper we propose a new scheme, called the reservoir scheme, which allows dynamic <lb/>and distributed resource allocation. The basic idea behind the scheme is to reserve <lb/>bandwidth with a guaranteed bit rate for each virtual circuit. The user is allowed to <lb/>decentrally allocate additional bandwidth from an Available Bit Rate (ABR) reservoir to satisfy dynamic changes of Variable Bit Rate (VBR) traffic. The duration and <lb/>bandwidth of this dynamic access are negotiated in the call setup phase and do not <lb/>require any renegotiation with the service provider so that this solution overcomes the <lb/>rigidity of current static bandwidth reservation schemes. The additional management <lb/>requirements are low compared to other dynamic bandwidth reservation schemes. We <lb/>also describe an analytic model and simulation which we used to determine whether <lb/>it would be practical to apply the proposed scheme in a slotted network. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">Pieter Kritzinger is in the </note> 
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Depatrment, University of Cape Town, </affiliation></byline> <address> private <lb/> Bag, Rondbosch 7700 <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>