<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="158"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">On multivariate polynomial interpolation <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Carl de Boor 1 &amp; Amos Ron <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>We provide a map fi 7! fi which associates each finite set fi of points in C s with a polynomial <lb/>space fi from which interpolation to arbitrary data given at the points in fi is possible and uniquely <lb/>so. Among all polynomial spaces Q from which interpolation at fi is uniquely possible, our fi <lb/>is of smallest degree. It is also D- and scale-invariant. Our map is monotone, thus providing a <lb/>Newton form for the resulting interpolant. Our map is also continuous within reason, allowing us to <lb/>interpret certain cases of coalescence as Hermite interpolation. In fact, our map can be extended to <lb/>the case where, with each 2 fi, there is associated a polynomial space P , and, for given smooth <lb/>f , a polynomial q 2 Q is sought for which <lb/>p(D)(f q)() = 0; all p 2 P ; 2 fi: <lb/>We obtain fi as the &quot;scaled limit at the origin&quot; (Exp fi ) # of the exponential space Exp fi with <lb/>frequencies fi, and base our results on a study of the map H 7! H # defined on subspaces H of <lb/>the space of functions analytic at the origin. This study also allows us to determine the local <lb/>approximation order from such H and provides an algorithm for the construction of H # from any <lb/>basis for H. <lb/></div>
		<keywords type="classes">AMS (MOS) Subject Classifications: primary 41A05, 41A63, 41A10; secondary 65D05, 41A30 <lb/></keywords>
		<keywords>Key Words: exponentials, polynomials, multivariate, interpolation, Newton form, Birkhoff interpolation <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">Authors&apos; affiliation and address: <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>Center for Mathematical Sciences <lb/>University of Wisconsin-Madison <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>610 Walnut St. <lb/>Madison WI 53705 <lb/></address>
		<note type="grant">1 supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMS-8701275 and by <lb/>the United States Army under Contract No. DAAL03-87-K-0030 <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>