<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="232"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Loss Correlation for Queues with Bursty Input Streams <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Henning Schulzrinne James F. Kurose and Donald F. Towsley <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of ECE Dept. of Computer Science <lb/>University of Massachusetts <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Amherst, MA 01003 <lb/></address>
		<email>hgschulz,kurose,towsley@cs.umass.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The loss probability of a queueing system provides, in many cases, insufficient information for performance evaluation, for example, of data link layer protocols and applications with forward <lb/>error correction. <lb/>This paper evaluates and characterizes the correlation between packet losses for two queueing systems in discrete time <lb/>that are motivated by BISDN applications. The first, a two-class discrete-time queueing system, approximates the output <lb/>queue of an ATM switch. The queue serves periodic foreground <lb/>traffic and random background traffic. The background traffic <lb/>is modeled as i.i.d. batches of arbitrary distribution. It is shown <lb/>that the conditional loss probability (CLP) is independent of the <lb/>buffer size if the buffer size is at least as large as the period of <lb/>the foreground traffic. Example calculations indicate that losses <lb/>occur essentially randomly as long as the foreground traffic uses <lb/>less than 10% of the channel capacity. <lb/>The second analysis derives the CLP seen by a selected <lb/>stream in a slotted finite-buffer system with a superposition of <lb/>interrupted Poisson sources. Here, the total number of arrivals <lb/>may be correlated from slot to slot. Traffic correlation is seen <lb/>to have a strong influence on loss correlation, while buffer size <lb/>is seen to have virtually none. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>