<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="383"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Tioga: Providing Data Management Support for <lb/>Scientific Visualization Applications <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Michael Stonebraker, Jolly Chen, Nobuko Nathan, Caroline Paxson, Jiang Wu <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Division, EECS Department <lb/>University of California <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Berkeley, CA 94720 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We present a user interface paradigm for <lb/>database management systems that is motivated <lb/>by scientific visualization applications. Our <lb/>graphical user interface includes a &quot;boxes and arrows&quot; notation for database access and a flight <lb/>simulator model of movement through information space. We also provide means to specify a <lb/>hierarchy of abstracts of data of different types <lb/>and resolutions, so that a &quot;zoom&quot; capability can <lb/>be supported. The underlying DBMS support for <lb/>this system is described and includes the compilation of query plans into megaplans, new algorithms for data buffering, and provisions for <lb/>a guaranteed rate of data delivery. The current state of the Tioga implementation is also described. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This research was sponsored by NSF Grant IRI-9107455, ARO Grant DAAL03-91-G-0183, and DARPA <lb/>Contract DABT63-92-C-0007. Additional support was <lb/>provided by the University of California and Digital Equipment Corporation under Research Grant #1243. <lb/>Other industrial and government partners include the <lb/>State of California Department of Water Resources, United <lb/>States Geological Survey, Construction Engineering Research Laboratory (CERL) of the U.S. Army Corps of <lb/>Engineers, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Epoch Systems, Inc., Hewlett-Packard <lb/>Corp., Hughes Aircraft Company, MCI, Metrum Corporation, PictureTel Corporation, Research Systems Inc., Science Applications International Corporation, Siemens Inc., <lb/>and TRW Space and Electronics. <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>