<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1077"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
        <note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review</note>
        <date type="submission">16 April 2010<lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Anatomy  of neck configuration in fission decay<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>S.K.  Patra   1   , R. K. Choudhury   2   and L. Satpathy   1<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1   Institute  of Physics, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Sachivalaya Marg, Bhubaneswar 751005, India<lb/></address>    
                <byline><affiliation>4   Bhaba Atomic Research Centre,<lb/></affiliation></byline>
	     	<address>Mumbai<lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.<lb/>  The anatomy of neck configuration in the fission decay of Uranium and Thorium<lb/> isotopes is investigated in a microscopic study using Relativistic mean field theory.<lb/> The study includes   236   U  and   232   T h  in the valley of stability and exotic neutron rich<lb/> isotopes   250   U  ,   256   U  ,   260   U  ,   240   T h,   250   T h,   256   T h  likely to play important role in the r-<lb/> process nucleosynthesis in stellar evolution. Following the static fission path, the neck<lb/> configurations are generated and their composition in terms of the number of neutrons<lb/> and protons are obtained showing the progressive rise in the neutron component with<lb/> the increase of mass number. Strong correlation between the neutron multiplicity in<lb/> the fission decay and the number of neutrons in the neck is seen. The maximum<lb/> neutron-proton ratio is about 5 for   260   U and   256   Th suggestive of the break down of<lb/> liquid-drop picture and inhibition of the fission decay in still heavier isotopes. Neck as<lb/> precursor of a new mode of fission decay like multi-fragmentation fission may also be<lb/> inferred from this study. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>PACS:  24.75.+i, 25.85.-w,21.10.Dr, 21.60.Jz<lb/>  Keywords:  Nuclear Fission, neck structure, scission point, relativistic mean field<lb/> formalism<lb/></keywords>
		<introduction>1. Introduction<lb/></introduction>
                </front>
</text>
</tei>