<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="391"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Semantic Query Caching for Heterogeneous Databases <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Parke Godfrey <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>U.S. Army Research Laboratory <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>2800 Powder Mill Road <lb/>Adelphi, Maryland 20783-1197 <lb/>U.S.A. <lb/></address>
		<email>godfrey@arl.mil <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jarek Gryz <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>York University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Toronto, Ontario M3J 1P3 <lb/>Canada <lb/></address>
		<email>jarek@cs.yorku.ca <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Query caching can play a vital role in heterogeneous, multi-database environments. Answers to a query that are available in cache <lb/>at the local client can be returned to the user <lb/>quickly, while the rest of the query is evaluated. The use of caches can optimize query <lb/>evaluation. By caching certain sensitive data <lb/>locally, caches can be used to answer the parts <lb/>of queries that involve the sensitive data, so it <lb/>need not be shipped across the network. Most <lb/>prior cache schemes have been tuple-based or <lb/>page-based. It is unclear, however, how these <lb/>might be adapted for multi-databases. We explore a more flexible semantic query caching <lb/>(SQC) approach. In SQC, caches are the answer sets of previous queries, labeled by the <lb/>query expressions that produced them. We <lb/>promote developing the technology, based on <lb/>logic, to manipulate semantic caches, to determine when and how caches can be used to answer subsequent queries, and to optimize via <lb/>cache use. <lb/></div>
		<note type="copyright">The copyright of this paper belongs to the papers authors. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted <lb/>provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct <lb/>commercial advantage. <lb/></note>
		<note type="reference">Proceedings of the 4th KRDB Workshop <lb/>Athens, Greece, 30-August-1997 <lb/>(F. Baader, M.A. Jeusfeld, W. Nutt, eds.) <lb/></note>
		<ptr type="web">http://sunsite.informatik.rwth-aachen.de/Publications/CEUR-WS/Vol-8/ <lb/></ptr>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>