<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="344"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Reducing Branch Costs via Branch Alignment <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Brad Calder and Dirk Grunwald <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Campus Box 430 <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Colorado <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Boulder, CO 80309-0430 USA <lb/></address>
		<email>{fcalder,grunwaldg}@cs.colorado.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Several researchers have proposed algorithms for basic block reordering. We call these branch alignment algorithms. The primary <lb/>emphasis of these algorithms has been on improving instruction <lb/>cache locality, and the few studies concerned with branch prediction reported small or minimal improvements. As wide-issue architectures become increasingly popular the importance of reducing <lb/>branch costs will increase, and branch alignment is one mechanism <lb/>which can effectively reduce these costs. <lb/>In this paper, we propose an improved branch alignment algorithm that takes into consideration the architectural cost model and <lb/>the branch prediction architecture when performing the basic block <lb/>reordering. We show that branch alignment algorithms can improve <lb/>a broad range of static and dynamic branch prediction architectures. <lb/>We also show that a programs performance can be improved by approximately 5% even when using recently proposed, highly accurate <lb/>branch prediction architectures. The programs are compiled by any <lb/>existing compiler and then transformed via binary transformations. <lb/>When implementing these algorithms on a Alpha AXP 21604 up to <lb/>a 16% reduction in total execution time is achieved. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Branch Prediction, Profile-based Optimization, <lb/>Branch Target Buffers, Trace Scheduling. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>