<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="129"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Sync: A System for Mobile Collaborative Applications <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jonathan P. Munson and Prasun Dewan <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<date>March 14, 1997 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>Sync is a new Java-based framework for developing collaborative applications for wireless mobile <lb/>systems. Sync is based on objectoriented replication and offers high-level synchronization-aware classes <lb/>based on existing Java classes. Programmers may also extend the Sync-provided classes to create new <lb/>replicated classes, either to add functionality or to modify a classs merge policy. Sync supports fully <lb/>disconnected operation and employs centralized, asynchronous synchronization. Application programmers <lb/>use the Sync framework to define conflicts and specify conflict resolution on the basis of the applications <lb/>structure and semantics. <lb/>We discuss the general needs of wireless mobile applications, and present a high-function example <lb/>application that would be useful to mobile users, to be used for illustration throughout the paper. Next we <lb/>discuss related work, and evaluate each work relative to its ability to support the example application. We <lb/>then present the Sync framework, motivating each feature with its use in the example application. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>