<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="248"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Estimating the Selectivity of Spatial Queries Using <lb/>the `Correlation&apos; Fractal Dimension <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Alberto Belussi <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dipartimento di Elettronica e Informatica <lb/>Politecnico di Milano <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Milano (Italy) <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: belussi@elet.polimi.it <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Christos Faloutsos <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Systems Research (ISR) and <lb/>Dept. of Computer Science <lb/> Univ. of Maryland,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: christos@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>February 24, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We examine the estimation of selectivities for range and spatial join queries in real spatial <lb/>databases. As we have shown earlier [FK94a], real point sets: (a) violate consistently the <lb/>&quot;uniformity&quot; and &quot;independence&quot; assumptions, (b) can often be described as &quot;fractals&quot;, with <lb/>non-integer (fractal) dimension. In this paper we show that, among the infinite family of fractal <lb/>dimensions, the so called &quot;Correlation Dimension&quot; D 2 is the one that we need to predict the <lb/>selectivity of spatial join. <lb/>The main contribution is that, for all the real and synthetic point-sets we tried, the average <lb/>number of neighbors for a given point of the point-set follows a power law, with D 2 as the exponent. This immediately solves the selectivity estimation for spatial joins, as well as for &quot;biased&quot; <lb/>range queries (i.e., queries whose centers prefer areas of high point density). <lb/>We present the formulas to estimate the selectivity for the biased queries, including an integration constant (K `shape 0 ) for each query shape. Finally, we show results on real and synthetic <lb/>point sets, where our formulas achieve very low relative errors (typically about 10%, versus <lb/>40%-100% of the uniform assumption). <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>