<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Appears in the Seventh International World Wide Web Conference, Brisbane, Australia, Elsevier Science, pp. <lb/>95-105, 1998. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Inquirus, the NECI meta search engine <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Steve Lawrence and C. Lee Giles <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>NEC Research Institute, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>4 Independence Way, Princeton, NJ 08540, U.S.A. <lb/></address>
		<email>lawrence@research.nj.nec.com and </email> <email>giles@research.nj.nec.com <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>World Wide Web (WWW) search engines (e.g. AltaVista, Infoseek, HotBot, etc.) have a number of <lb/>deficiencies including: periods of downtime, low coverage of the WWW, inconsistent and inefficient user <lb/>interfaces, out of date databases, poor relevancy ranking and precision, and difficulties with spamming <lb/>techniques. Meta search engines have been introduced which address some of these and other difficulties in <lb/>searching the WWW. However, current meta search engines retain some of these difficulties and may also <lb/>introduce their own problems (e.g. reduced relevance because one or more of the search engines returns results <lb/>with poor relevance). We present Inquirus, the NECI meta search engine, which addresses many of the <lb/>deficiencies in current techniques. Rather than working with the list of documents and summaries returned by <lb/>search engines, as current meta search engines typically do, the Inquirus meta search engine works by <lb/>downloading and analyzing the individual documents. The Inquirus meta search engine makes improvements <lb/>over existing search engines in a number of areas, e.g.: more useful document summaries incorporating query <lb/>term context, identification of both pages which no longer exist and pages which no longer contain the query <lb/>terms, advanced detection of duplicate pages, improved document ranking using proximity information, <lb/>dramatically improved precision for certain queries by using specific expressive forms, and quick jump links <lb/>and highlighting when viewing the full documents. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords <lb/>Information retrieval; Search engine; Meta search; Context-based search <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>