<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="306"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Tolerating Latency with Dagger <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Attila Gursoy and L.V.Kale <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<note type="other">Urbana IL 61801, USA <lb/></note>
		<email>{fgursoy,kaleg}@cs.uiuc.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The communication latency is a major issue that must be dealt with in parallel <lb/>computing. The parallel computation model therefore must provide the ability to tolerate <lb/>such latencies. Communication using blocking receives is the commonly used mechanism <lb/>in parallel programming today. Message driven execution is an alternate mechanism <lb/>which does not use receive style statements at all. The message driven execution style <lb/>promotes the overlap of computation and communication: Programs written in this style <lb/>exhibit increased latency tolerance. However, they are often difficult to develop and <lb/>debug. We present a coordination language called Dagger to alleviate this problem. The <lb/>language has a mechanism which is called expect, that replaces the receive statement. <lb/>It has been implemented in the Charm parallel programming system, and runs programs <lb/>portably on a variety of parallel machines. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>