<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="819"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">An Analysis of Geographical Push-Caching <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>James Gwertzman,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Microsoft Corporation <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Margo Seltzer,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Harvard University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Most caching schemes in wide-area, distributed systems are client-initiated. Decisions of when and <lb/>where to cache information are made without the benefit of the server&apos;s global knowledge of the usage <lb/>patterns. In this paper, we present a new caching strategy: geographical push-caching. Using the server&apos;s <lb/>global knowledge and a derived network topology, we distribute data to cooperating servers. The World <lb/>Wide Web is an example of a wide-area system that will benefit from distance-sensitive caching, and we <lb/>present an architecture that allows a Web server to autonomously replicate HTML pages. We use a trace-driven simulation to evaluate several competing caching strategies. Our results show that geographical <lb/>push-caching reduces bandwidth consumption and sever load by the same amount as web proxy caching, <lb/>but with a savings in global cache space of almost two orders of magnitude. More importantly, servers <lb/>that wish to reduce Internet bandwidth consumption and their load can do so without waiting for web <lb/>proxies to be implemented world-wide. Furthermore, geographical push-caching helps distribute server <lb/>load for all web servers, not just the most popular as is the case with proxy caching. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>