<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="276"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Forward and Backward Simulations <lb/>Part I: Untimed Systems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Nancy Lynch <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>MIT <lb/>Laboratory for Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, MA 02139, USA <lb/></address>
		<email>lynch@theory.lcs.mit.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Frits Vaandrager <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<address>CWI <lb/>P.O. Box 94079, NL-1090 GB Amsterdam <lb/></address>
		<email>fritsv@cwi.nl <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Amsterdam <lb/>Programming Research Group <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Kruislaan 403, NL-1098 SJ Amsterdam <lb/></address>
		<date>October 31, 1994 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A unified, comprehensive presentation of simulation techniques for verification of concurrent systems is given, in terms of a simple untimed automaton model. In particular, <lb/>(1) refinements, (2) forward and backward simulations, (3) hybrid forward-backward <lb/>and backward-forward simulations, and (4) history and prophecy relations are defined. <lb/>History and prophecy relations are abstract versions of the history and prophecy variables of Abadi and Lamport, as well as the auxiliary variables of Owicki and Gries. <lb/>Relationships between the different types of simulations, as well as soundness and <lb/>completeness results, are stated and proved. Finally, it is shown how invariants can be <lb/>incorporated into all the simulations. <lb/>Even though many results are presented here for the first time, this paper can <lb/>also be read as a survey (in a simple setting) of the research literature on simulation <lb/>techniques. <lb/>The development for untimed automata is designed to support a similar development for timed automata. In Part II of this paper, it is shown how the results of this <lb/>paper can be carried over to the setting of timed automata. <lb/></div>
		<keywords type="classes">1991 Mathematics Subject Classification: 68Q60, 68Q68. <lb/>1991 CR Categories: F.1.1, F.3.1. <lb/></keywords>
		<keywords>Keywords and Phrases: Simulations, automata, refinement mappings, forward simulations, backward simulations, forward-backward simulations, backward-forward simulations, history variables, prophecy variables, history relations, prophecy relations, <lb/>verification, invariants. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">Notes: This work was supported by ONR contracts N00014-85-K-0168 and N00014-91-J-1988, by NSF grants CCR-8915206 and CCR-9225124, by DARPA contracts N00014-89-J-1988 and N00014-92-J-4033, and ONR-AFOSR contract F49620-94-1-0199. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>