<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1018"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Is the LIM-domain Protein HaWLIM1 Associated with Cortical <lb/> Microtubules in Sunflower Protoplasts ? <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Authors : Christian Brière 1 , Anne-Claire Bordel 1 , Henri Barthou 1 , Alain Jauneau 2 , André <lb/> Steinmetz 3 , Gilbert Alibert 1 and Michel Petitprez 1 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1 Laboratoire &quot;Biotechnologie et Amélioration des Plantes&quot;, INP-ENSAT,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>BP 107 Auzeville <lb/> F-31326 Castanet-tolosan, France <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>2 IFR FR40,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>18 chemin de Borderouge, BP 17 Auzeville, F-31326 Castanet-tolosan, France <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>3 Institut de Biologie Moléculaire des Plantes du CNRS,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>12 rue du Général Zimmer, 67084 <lb/> Strasbourg, France <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">AbstractFlowering plants express several LIM-domain proteins related to the animal CRP proteins. <lb/>The expression of sunflower LIM genes was followed by RT-PCR in cultured sunflower <lb/>protoplasts. A transcript was detected only for HaWLIM1, but not for the other two genes <lb/>HaPLIM1 and HaPLIM2. Polyclonal antibodies raised against either full length recombinant <lb/>HaWLIM1 protein or peptides recognized a 27 kDa polypeptide on western blots. <lb/>Immunocytolocalization studies showed that HaWLIM1 is located in the cytoplasm and in the <lb/>nucleus. In the cytoplasm, HaWLIM1 is localized in punctate structures, which finely <lb/>decorate microtubule bundles. Depolymerising microtubules with oryzalin resulted in a strong <lb/>modification of the HaWLIM1 cortical pattern. In contrast, treatment of protoplasts with <lb/>latrunculin B, which disrupts actin filaments, had no effect on HaWLIM1 localization. <lb/>HaWLIM1 was also located within the nucleus of interphase protoplasts. During mitosis, <lb/>nuclear labelling was observed in prophase, which decreased in metaphase, disappeared in <lb/>anaphase, and recovered in telophase. These results suggest a dual role for HaWLIM1: in the <lb/>cytoplasm, as a component of molecular complexes which may interact with microtubules, <lb/>and in the nucleus, as a partner of transcription factors during interphase. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words: LIM-domain protein, microtubule, protoplast, sunflower, Helianthus annuus <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 <lb/>Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>