<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="697"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To appear in Proc. AAAI&apos;97 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Dynamic Abstraction Planning <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Robert P. Goldman, David J. Musliner, Kurt D. Krebsbach, Mark S. Boddy <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Automated Reasoning Group <lb/>Honeywell Technology Center <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>3660 Technology Drive <lb/>Minneapolis, MN 55418 <lb/></address>
		<email>{goldman,musliner,krebsbac,boddy}@htc.honeywell.com <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper describes Dynamic Abstraction Planning <lb/>(DAP), an abstraction planning technique that improves the efficiency of state-enumeration planners for <lb/>real-time embedded systems such as CIRCA. Abstraction is used to remove detail from the state representation, reducing both the size of the state space that <lb/>must be explored to produce a plan and the size of the <lb/>resulting plan. The intuition behind this approach is <lb/>simple: in some situations, certain world features are <lb/>important, while in other situations those same features are not important. <lb/>By automatically selecting the appropriate level of abstraction at each step during the planning process, <lb/>DAP can significantly reduce the size of the search <lb/>space. Furthermore, the planning process can supply <lb/>initial plans that preserve safety but might, on further <lb/>refinement, do a better job of goal achievement. DAP <lb/>can also terminate with an executable abstract plan, <lb/>which may be much smaller than the corresponding <lb/>plan expanded to precisely-defined states. Preliminary <lb/>results show dramatic improvements in planning speed <lb/>and scalability. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>