<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1128"/>  
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>    
        
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Incidence  of  in-situ  annealing on the nanoscale<lb/> topographical/electrical properties of tunnel barrier<lb/> in sputtered epitaxial Fe/MgO/Fe multilayers<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor> D J Kim, J Arabski, V Da Costa, G Schmerber, M Bowen, S<lb/> Boukari and E Beaurepaire <lb/> </docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>IPCMS  UMR 7504 CNRS, Université de Strasbourg, </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> 23 Rue du Loess, BP 43, 67034<lb/> Strasbourg Cedex 2, France <lb/></address>  
		
		<email>E-mail:  dong-jik.kim@ipcms.u-strasbg.fr </email>
		
		<note>(D J Kim) and<lb/></note>
		
		<email>eric.beaurepaire@ipcms.u-strasbg.fr  </email>
		
		<note>(E Beaurepaire)<lb/></note>
		
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.  Technological improvements in the magnetotranport performance of<lb/> Fe/MgO/Fe stacks require nanoscale control over the topographical and electrical<lb/> properties of the ultrathin MgO barrier.<lb/> We have statistically investigated<lb/> the incidence of  in-situ  annealing of the lower Fe layer on the nanoscale<lb/> topographical/electrical properties of Fe/MgO bilayers and the structural and magnetic<lb/> properties of Fe/MgO/Fe/Co multilayers prepared by sputtering. This annealing step<lb/> improves the crystal quality of both the lower Fe and upper Fe/Co layers, leading to<lb/> an enhanced saturated magnetic moment. Finally, this annealing step substantially<lb/> mitigates the presence of nanohills on the lower Fe layer and improves the uniformity<lb/> of the height and/or the thickness of MgO tunnel barrier. Our results pave the way for<lb/> studies of nanoscale transport on micron-sized devices through a better understanding<lb/> of, and control over, nanoscale hotspots in the tunnel barrier. <lb/></div>  	
		
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 85.75.Dd, 81.15.-z, 68.55.-a <lb/></keywords>
		
		<note type="submission">Submitted to:  J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys.<lb/></note>
		
		<note type="title">in-situ  annealing on Fe/MgO/Fe multilayers<lb/></note>
		
		<note>2<lb/></note>
		
		<introduction>1.  Introduction <lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              
