<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1119"/>  
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>    
    	<idno>DOI:  10.1002/zaac.200700541 <lb/></idno>
    			
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Synthesis, Structure and Electrochemical Lithium Intercalation<lb/> Chemistry of Ramsdellite-Type LiCrTiO  4<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor>A. Kuhn, M. Martín, and F. García-Alvarado*<lb/> </docAuthor></byline>
		
		<address>Madrid/Spain,   </address>  
		<byline><affiliation>Departamento de Quı ´mica, Universidad San Pablo-CEU <lb/></affiliation></byline> 
		
		<note type="submission">Received December 4th, 2007.<lb/></note>
		
		<note type="dedication">Dedicated  to Professor Joachim Strähle on the Occasion of his 70  th  Birthday<lb/></note>
		
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. LiCrTiO  4  , which crystallizes in the orthorhombic<lb/> ramsdellite structure, has been obtained by heating spinel LiCrTiO  4<lb/>  at 1250  °C  in air. The refined cell parameters are a  񮽙  4.9835(6) A <lb/> b  񮽙  9.5095(8) A ånd c  񮽙  2.9282(2) A  space group Pbnm, as deter-<lb/> mined from Rietveld refinement of X-ray powder diffraction data.<lb/> The intercalation chemistry of LiCrTiO  4  has been investigated.<lb/> Lithium can be extracted from LiCrTiO  4  due to oxidation of Cr  III<lb/>  at rather high potential 4 V. On the other hand, lithium inter-<lb/> calation proceeds readily at 1.5 V due to the reduction of tetra-<lb/> valent titanium. Regarding practical applications, as an electrode<lb/> for lithium rechargeable batteries, specific capacities of 100 and<lb/> 120 mAh · g   񮽙1   are developed at 0.1 mA · cm   񮽙2   , respectively. These<lb/> findings point out that the ramsdellite form of LiCrTiO  4  may be<lb/> an ambivalent electrode, which can be used either as the positive<lb/> electrode or the negative electrode of a lithium ion rechargeable<lb/> battery.<lb/> </div>  

		<keywords>Keywords: Ramsdellite; In situ X-ray diffraction; Spinel-ramsdellite<lb/> transition; Electrochemcial lithium intercalation; Electrode for<lb/> lithium batteries<lb/></keywords>
		
		<introduction>Introduction <lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              