<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="120"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Hierarchical Inter-Domain Routing Protocol <lb/>with On-Demand ToS and Policy Resolution <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Cengiz Alaettinoglu, A. Udaya Shankar <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Advanced Computer Studies <lb/>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, Maryland 20742 <lb/></address>
		<idno>CS-TR-3299 <lb/></idno>
		<date>June 20, 1994 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Traditional inter-domain routing protocols based on superdomains maintain either &quot;strong&quot; <lb/>or &quot;weak&quot; ToS and policy constraints for each visible superdomain. With strong constraints, <lb/>a valid path may not be found even though one exists. With weak constraints, an invalid <lb/>domain-level path may be treated as a valid path. <lb/>We present an inter-domain routing protocol based on superdomains, which always finds <lb/>a valid path if one exists. Both strong and weak constraints are maintained for each visible <lb/>superdomain. If the strong constraints of the superdomains on a path are satisfied, then the <lb/>path is valid. If only the weak constraints are satisfied for some superdomains on the path, the <lb/>source uses a query protocol to obtain a more detailed &quot;internal&quot; view of these superdomains, <lb/>and searches again for a valid path. Our protocol handles topology changes, including node/link <lb/>failures that partition superdomains. Evaluation results indicate our protocol scales well to large <lb/>internetworks. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Categories and Subject Descriptors: C.2.1 [Computer-Communication Networks]: Network Archi <lb/>tecture and Design|packet networks; store and forward networks; C.2.2 [Computer-Communication Net <lb/>works]: Network Protocols|protocol architecture; C.2.m [Routing Protocols]; F.2.m [Computer Network <lb/>Routing Protocols]. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">This work is supported in part by ARPA and Philips Labs under contract DASG60-92-0055 to Department <lb/>of Computer Science, University of Maryland, and by National Science Foundation Grant No. NCR 89-04590. The <lb/>views, opinions, and/or findings contained in this report are those of the author(s) and should not be interpreted as <lb/>representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of the Advanced Research Projects Agency, PL, NSF, <lb/>or the U.S. Government. Computer facilities were provided in part by NSF grant CCR-8811954. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>