<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="718"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To be presented at the 17th IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium, December 1996. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Framework for Implementing Objects and Scheduling Tasks in Lock-Free <lb/>Real-Time Systems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>James H. Anderson and Srikanth Ramamurthy <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We present an integrated framework for developing real-time systems in which lock-free algorithms are employed to <lb/>implement shared objects. There are two key objectives of <lb/>our work. The first is to enable functionality for object sharing in lock-free real-time systems that is comparable to that <lb/>in lock-based systems. Our main contribution toward this <lb/>objective is an efficient approach for implementing multi-object lock-free operations and transactions. A second key <lb/>objective of our work is to improve upon previously proposed <lb/>scheduling conditions for tasks that share lock-free objects. <lb/>When developing such conditions, the key issue is to bound <lb/>the cost of operation interferences. We present a general <lb/>approach for doing this, based on linear programming. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>