<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="69"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">DIMACS Series in Discrete Mathematics <lb/>and Theoretical Computer Science <lb/>Volume 00, 19xx <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Global Optimization Methods for Protein Folding Problems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Richard H. Byrd, Elizabeth Eskow, Andre van der Hoek, Robert B. <lb/>Schnabel, Chung-Shang Shao, and Zhihong Zou <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. The problem of finding the naturally occurring structure of a protein is believed to correspond to minimizing the free, or potential, energy of <lb/>the protein. This is generally a very difficult global optimization problem, with <lb/>a large number of parameters and a huge number of local minimizers including many with function values near that of the global minimizer. This paper <lb/>presents a new global optimization method for such problems. The method <lb/>consists of an initial phase that locates some reasonably low local minimizers of <lb/>the energy function, followed by the main phase that progresses from the best <lb/>current local minimizers to even lower local minimizers. The method combines <lb/>portions that work on small subsets of the parameters, including small-scale <lb/>global optimizations using stochastic methods, with local minimizations involving all the parameters. In computational tests on the protein polyalanine <lb/>with up to 58 amino acids (116 internal parameters), the method appears to <lb/>be very successful in finding the lowest energy structures. The largest case <lb/>is particularly significant because the lowest energy structures that are found <lb/>include ones that exhibit interesting tertiary as opposed to just secondary <lb/>structure. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>