<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="3"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Fast Barrier Synchronization in Wormhole k-ary n-cube Networks <lb/>with Multidestination Worms <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dhabaleswar K. Panda <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer and Information Science <lb/> The Ohio State University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Columbus, OH 43210-1277 <lb/></address>
		<note type="phone">Tel: (614)-292-5199, Fax: (614)-292-2911 <lb/></note>
		<email>E-mail: panda@cis.ohio-state.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Proc. of the Int&apos;l Symposium on High Performance <lb/>Computer Architecture (HPCA &apos;95), pp. 200-209. <lb/>This paper presents a new approach to implement fast barrier synchronization in wormhole k-ary <lb/>n-cubes. The novelty lies in using multidestination <lb/>messages instead of the traditional single destination <lb/>messages. Two different multidestination worm types, <lb/>gather and broadcasting, are introduced to implement <lb/>the report and wake-up phases of barrier synchronization, respectively. Algorithms for complete and arbitrary set barrier synchronization are presented using <lb/>these new worms. It is shown that complete barrier <lb/>synchronization in a k-ary n-cube system with e-cube <lb/>routing can be implemented with 2n communication <lb/>start-ups as compared to 2n log 2 k start-ups needed <lb/>with unicast-based message passing. For arbitrary set <lb/>barrier, an interesting trend is observed where the synchronization cost keeps on reducing beyond a certain <lb/>number of participating nodes. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>