<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1043"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Nonparametric estimation in a semimartingale <lb/> regression model. <lb/> Part 2. Robust asymptotic efficiency.  * <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Konev, V.  ? <lb/>  S. Pergamenshchikov  ? <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<date>September 16, 2009 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>  In this paper we prove the asymptotic efficiency of the model se- <lb/> lection procedure proposed by the authors in [10]. To this end we <lb/> introduce the robust risk as the least upper bound of the quadratical <lb/> risk over a broad class of observation distributions. Asymptotic upper <lb/> and lower bounds for the robust risk have been derived. The asymp- <lb/> totic efficiency of the procedure is proved. The Pinsker constant is <lb/> found. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Non-parametric regression; Model selection; Sharp oracle inequal- <lb/> ity; Robust risk; Asymptotic efficiency; Pinsker constant; Semimartingale <lb/> noise. <lb/>  AMS 2000 Subject Classifications: Primary: 62G08; Secondary: 62G05 <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">*  The paper is supported by the RFFI-Grant 09-01-00172-a. <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>?  Department of Applied Mathematics and Cybernetics, Tomsk State University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Lenin <lb/> str. 36, 634050 Tomsk, Russia,</address>
		<email>e-mail: vvkonev@mail.tsu.ru <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>?  Laboratoire de Mathématiques Raphael Salem,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Avenue de l&apos;Université, BP. 12,</address>
		<byline><affiliation>Uni- <lb/> versité de Rouen,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>F76801, Saint Etienne du Rouvray, Cedex France,</address>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Math- <lb/> ematics and Mechanics,Tomsk State University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Lenin str. 36, 634041 Tomsk, Russia, <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: Serge.Pergamenchtchikov@univ-rouen.fr <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">1 <lb/></note>
		<idno>hal-00417600,  version 1 -</idno>
		<date>16 Sep 2009 <lb/></date>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>