<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1091"/> 
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
	<front> 
		<note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">19 November 2009<lb/></date>

		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Bistable  FeCoMoB microwires<lb/>with nanocrystalline microstructure and increased Curie temperature<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor>P.  Klein  1  , R. Varga  1  , P. Vojtanik  1  , J. Kovac  2  , J. Ziman  3  , G. A. Badini-Confalonieri  4  ,  and<lb/>  M. Vazquez  4<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>1  Inst. Phys., Fac. Sci., UPJS,  </affiliation></byline>	
		<address>Park Angelinum 9, 041 54 Kosice, Slovakia	<lb/></address>
	
		<byline><affiliation>2  Inst. Exp. Physics, SAS,  </affiliation></byline>	
		<address>Watsonova 47, 040 01 Kosice, Slovakia<lb/></address>
		
		<byline><affiliation>3  Dept. of Physics, FEI TUKE,  </affiliation></byline>	
		<address>Park Komenskeho 2, 042 00 Kosice, Slovakia <lb/></address>

		<byline><affiliation>4  ICMM CSIC, </affiliation></byline>	
		<address>Campus de Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain <lb/></address>
		 
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.-<lb/> Novel nanocrystalline glass-coated Fe  40  Co  38  Mo  4  B  18  microwires are introduced.<lb/> They combine advantages of nanocrystalline alloys exhibiting simultaneously increased<lb/> Curie temperature and magnetic bistability, which is required for modern sensoric and<lb/> spintronic devices. Positive magnetostriction of the crystalline FeCo grains results in a<lb/> magnetic bistability, whereas good soft magnetic properties remains stabilized. As a<lb/> result of mechanical stress induced by the glass-coating, the optimum temperature range<lb/> for thermal treatment is enhanced up to 600  o  C.<lb/></div>
		 
		<keywords>Keywords: Magnetic microwires, domain wall, switching field, nanocrystalline materials.<lb/></keywords>
		
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS: 75.30.Gw; 75.50.Tt; 75.60.Ej<lb/></keywords>
		
		<note type="other">Corresponding author: Dr. R. Varga,<lb/>Inst. Phys., Faculty of Science<lb/> University of Pavol Jozef Safarik<lb/>Park Angelinum 9, 041 54 Kosice<lb/>Slovakia<lb/></note>
		
		<email>E-mail: rvarga@upjs.sk</email>

		<introduction>1.  Introduction<lb/></introduction>
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              