<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="213"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Induction as Knowledge Integration <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Benjamin D. Smith <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Jet Propulsion Laboratory <lb/>California Institute of Technology <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>4800 Oak Grove Drive M/S 525-3660 <lb/>Pasadena, CA 91109-8099 <lb/></address>
		<email>smith@aig.jpl.nasa.gov <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Paul S. Rosenbloom <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Information Sciences Institute &amp; Computer Science Dept. <lb/>University of Southern California <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>4676 Admiralty Way <lb/>Marina del Rey, CA 90292 <lb/></address>
		<email>rosenbloom@isi.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Two key issues for induction algorithms are the accuracy of the learned hypothesis and the computational <lb/>resources consumed in inducing that hypothesis. One <lb/>of the most promising ways to improve performance <lb/>along both dimensions is to make use of additional <lb/>knowledge. Multi-strategy learning algorithms tackle <lb/>this problem by employing several strategies for handling different kinds of knowledge in different ways. <lb/>However, integrating knowledge into an induction algorithm can be difficult when the new knowledge differs significantly from the knowledge the algorithm <lb/>already uses. In many cases the algorithm must be <lb/>rewritten. <lb/>This paper presents KII, a Knowledge Integration <lb/>framework for Induction, that provides a uniform <lb/>mechanism for integrating knowledge into induction. <lb/>In theory, arbitrary knowledge can be integrated with <lb/>this mechanism, but in practice the knowledge representation language determines both the knowledge <lb/>that can be integrated, and the costs of integration <lb/>and induction. By instantiating KII with various set <lb/>representations, algorithms can be generated at different trade-off points along these dimensions. <lb/>One instantiation of KII, called RS-KII, is presented <lb/>that can implement hybrid induction algorithms, depending on which knowledge it utilizes. RS-KII is <lb/>demonstrated to implement AQ-11 (Michalski 1978), <lb/>as well as a hybrid algorithm that utilizes a domain <lb/>theory and noisy examples. Other algorithms are also <lb/>possible. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>