<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1087"/> 
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
	<front> 
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Strange  Perspectives at FAIR<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>J. Steinheimer   1   , C. Sturm   2,3   , S. Schramm   4,5   and H. Stöcker   1,3,5<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>1  Institut für Theoretische Physik, Goethe Universität Frankfurt,<lb/> </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Max-von-Laue Str. 1, D-60438 Frankfurt Main, Germany<lb/></address>
		
		<byline><affiliation>2 Institut für Kernphysik, Goethe Universität Frankfurt,<lb/> </affiliation></byline>
		<address> Max-von-Laue Str. 1, D-60438 Frankfurt Main, Germany<lb/></address>
		
		<byline><affiliation>3 GSI Helmholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung GmbH,<lb/> </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Planckstr. 1, D-64291 Darmstadt, Germany<lb/></address>
		
		<byline><affiliation>4 Center for Scientific Computing, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Max-von-Laue-Str. 1,<lb/> D-60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany<lb/></address>
		
		<byline><affiliation>5 Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Ruth-Moufang-Str. 1,<lb/> D-60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany<lb/></address>
		
		<email>E-mail:  steinheimer@th.physik.uni-frankfurt.de<lb/></email>
		
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.  Adjacent to the existing accelarator complex of the GSI Helmholtz Centre<lb/> for Heavy Ion Research at Darmstadt/Germany the Facility for Antiproton and Ion<lb/> Research FAIR substantially expands research goals and technical possibilities. It will<lb/> provide worldwide unique accelerator and experimental facilities allowing for a large<lb/> variety of unprecedented fore-front research in hadron, nuclear and atomic physics<lb/> as well as applied sciences which will be described in this article briefly. The start<lb/> version of FAIR, the so called  Modularized  Start Version  will deliver first beams in<lb/> 2015/2016. As an example the article presents research efforts on strangeness at FAIR<lb/> using heavy ion collisions, exotic nuclei from fragmentation and antiprotons to tackle<lb/> various topics in this area. In particular hypernuclei and metastable exotic multi-<lb/> hypernuclear objects will be investigated.<lb/></div>
		
		<note type="title">Strange  Perspectives at FAIR<lb/>2<lb/></note>
		<introduction>1.  The FAIR Project<lb/></introduction>
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              