<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="55"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Displaying 3D Images: Algorithms for <lb/>Single Image Random Dot Stereograms <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Harold W. Thimbleby, Stuart Inglis, and Ian H. Witten * <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper describes how to generate a single image which, when viewed in the <lb/>appropriate way, appears to the brain as a 3D scene. The image is a stereogram composed <lb/>of seemingly random dots. A new, simple and symmetric algorithm for generating such <lb/>images from a solid model is given, along with the design parameters and their influence <lb/>on the display. The algorithm improves on previously-described ones in several ways: it <lb/>is symmetric and hence free from directional (right-to-left or left-to-right) bias, it corrects <lb/>a slight distortion in the rendering of depth, it removes hidden parts of surfaces, and it <lb/>also eliminates a type of artifact that we call an echo. <lb/>Random dot stereograms have one remaining problem: difficulty of initial viewing. If <lb/>a computer screen rather than paper is used for output, the problem can be ameliorated by <lb/>shimmering, or time-multiplexing of pixel values. We also describe a simple <lb/>computational technique for determining what is present in a stereogram so that, if <lb/>viewing is difficult, one can ascertain what to look for. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Single image random dot stereograms, SIRDS, autostereograms, <lb/>stereoscopic pictures, optical illusions <lb/></keywords>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Psychology,  University of Stirling,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Stirling, Scotland.</address>
		<note type="phone">Phone (+44) 786-467679; fax <lb/>786-467641;</note>
		<email>email hwt@compsci.stirling.ac.uk <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science,  University of Waikato,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Hamilton, New Zealand.</address>
		<note type="phone">Phone (+64 7) <lb/>856-2889; fax 838-4155;</note>
		<email>email singlis@waikato.ac.NZ. <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science,  University of Waikato,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Hamilton, New Zealand.</address>
		<note type="phone">Phone (+64 7) <lb/>838-4246; fax 838-4155;</note>
		<email>email ihw@waikato.ac.NZ. <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">* Please address all correspondence to Ian H. Witten <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>