<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="528"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Autonomous Robots, ??, 1-18 (??) <lb/></note><note type="copyright">c ?? Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston. Manufactured in The Netherlands. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Interleaving Planning and Robot Execution <lb/>for Asynchronous User Requests <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>KAREN ZITA HAIGH MANUELA M. VELOSO <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>khaigh@cs.cmu.edu</email> <email> mmv@cs.cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~khaigh http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~mmv <lb/></ptr>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department, Carnegie Mellon University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh PA 15213-3891 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. <lb/>Rogue is an architecture built on a real robot which provides algorithms for the integration of high-level planning, low-level robotic execution, and learning. Rogue addresses successfully several of the <lb/>challenges of a dynamic office gopher environment. This article presents the techniques for the integration <lb/>of planning and execution. <lb/>Rogue uses and extends a classical planning algorithm to create plans for multiple interacting goals <lb/>introduced by asynchronous user requests. Rogue translates the planner&apos;s actions to robot execution <lb/>actions and monitors real world execution. Rogue is currently implemented using the prodigy4.0 <lb/>planner and the Xavier robot. This article describes how plans are created for multiple asynchronous goals, <lb/>and how task priority and compatibility information is used to achieve appropriate efficient execution. We <lb/>describe how Rogue communicates with the planner and the robot to interleave planning with execution <lb/>so that the planner can replan for failed actions, identify the actual outcome of an action with multiple <lb/>possible outcomes, and take opportunities from changes in the environment. <lb/>Rogue represents a successful integration of a classical artificial intelligence planner with a real mobile <lb/>robot. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>