<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Learning Maps for Indoor Mobile Robot Navigation <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sebastian Thrun <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department and Robotics Institute <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<note type="other">Accepted for Publication in Artificial Intelligence <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Autonomous robots must be able to learn and maintain models of their environments. <lb/>Research on mobile robot navigation has produced two major paradigms for mapping indoor <lb/>environments: grid-based and topological. While grid-based methods produce accurate <lb/>metric maps, their complexity often prohibits efficient planning and problem solving in <lb/>large-scale indoor environments. Topological maps, on the other hand, can be used much <lb/>more efficiently, yet accurate and consistent topological maps are often difficult to learn <lb/>and maintain in large-scale environments, particularly if momentary sensor data is highly <lb/>ambiguous. This paper describes an approach that integrates both paradigms: grid-based <lb/>and topological. Grid-based maps are learned using artificial neural networks and naive <lb/>Bayesian integration. Topological maps are generated on top of the grid-based maps, by <lb/>partitioning the latter into coherent regions. By combining both paradigms, the approach <lb/>presented here gains advantages from both worlds: accuracy/consistency and efficiency. <lb/>The paper gives results for autonomous exploration, mapping and operation of a mobile <lb/>robot in populated multi-room environments. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">? This research was sponsored in part by the National Science Foundation under award IRI-9313367, and by the Wright Laboratory, Aeronautical Systems Center, Air Force Materiel <lb/>Command, USAF, and the Darpa Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) under <lb/>grant number F33615-93-1-1330. We also acknowledge financial support by Daimler Benz <lb/>Corp. <lb/>Preprint submitted to Elsevier Science 15 September 1997 <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>