<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="68"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">From the Proc. of the 1998 Inter. Conf. on Software Maintenance, Bethesda, Maryland, USA, November 1998 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Evaluating Software Deployment Languages and Schema <lb/>An Experience Report <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Richard S. Hall, Dennis M. Heimbigner, Alexander L. Wolf <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/> University of Colorado <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Boulder, CO 80309 USA <lb/></address>
		<email>frickhall,dennis,alwg@cs.colorado.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Software distribution is evolving from a physical media <lb/>approach to one where it is practical and advantageous to <lb/>leverage the connectivity of networks. Network distribution of software systems provides timeliness and continuity <lb/>of evolution not possible with physical media distribution <lb/>methods. To support network-based software distribution, <lb/>companies and organizations such as Microsoft, Marimba, <lb/>and the Desktop Management Task Force (DMTF) are <lb/>strengthening their efforts to package software systems in <lb/>a way that is conducive to network distribution and management. The result of these efforts has led to the creation <lb/>of software description languages and schema such as the <lb/>Open Software Description format created by Microsoft and <lb/>Marimba and the Management Information Format created <lb/>by DMTF. While these efforts are steps in the right direction, they do not address deployment issues in a complete <lb/>and systematic fashion. The contribution of this paper is to <lb/>evaluate these leading software description technologies. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>