<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="4"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. XX, NO. Y, MONTH 1999 1 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Trip-based Multicasting Model in <lb/>Wormhole-routed Networks with Virtual Channels <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Yu-Chee Tseng, Dhabaleswar K. Panda, Member, IEEE, and Ten-Hwang Lai, Member, IEEE <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract| This paper focuses on efficient multicasting in <lb/>wormhole-routed networks. A trip-based model is proposed <lb/>to support adaptive, distributed, and deadlock-free multiple <lb/>multicast on any network with arbitrary topology using at <lb/>most two virtual channels per physical channel. This model <lb/>significantly generalizes the path-based model proposed earlier [21], [22], which works only for Hamiltonian networks <lb/>and can not be applicable to networks with arbitrary topology resulted due to system faults. Fundamentals of the trip-based model, including the necessary and sufficient condition to be deadlock-free, and the use of appropriate number <lb/>of virtual channels to avoid deadlock are investigated. The <lb/>potential of this model is illustrated by applying it to hyper-cubes with faulty nodes. Simulation results indicate that the <lb/>proposed model can implement multiple multicast on faulty <lb/>hypercubes with negligible performance degradation. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords| Routing algorithm, Interprocessor communication, Multicast, Virtual channel, Wormhole-routing, <lb/>Path-based routing, Collective communication, and Fault <lb/>tolerance. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">I. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>