<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="116"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">An Application of Distributed Solid Modeling: Feature Recognition <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>William C. Regli <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>National Institute of Standards and Technology <lb/>Manufacturing Systems Integration Division <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Building 220, Room A-127 <lb/>Gaithersburg, MD 20899 <lb/></address>
		<email>regli@cme.nist.gov <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Satyandra K. Gupta <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Mechanical Engineering Department <lb/>Institute for Systems Research <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 USA <lb/></address>
		<email>skgupta@src.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dana S. Nau <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>Institute for Advanced Computer Studies <lb/>Institute for Systems Research <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 USA <lb/></address>
		<email>nau@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<idno>Available as CS-TR-3375, UMIACS-TR-94-126, ISR-TR 94-82. <lb/></idno>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The availability of low-cost computational power is a driving force behind the growing sophistication <lb/>of CAD software. Tools designed to reduce time-consuming build-test-redesign iterations are essential <lb/>for increasing engineering quality and productivity. However, automation of the design process poses <lb/>many difficult computational problems. As more downstream engineering activities are being considered <lb/>during the design phase, guaranteeing reasonable response times within design systems becomes problematic. Design is an interactive process and speed is a critical factor in systems that enable designers to <lb/>explore and experiment with alternative ideas during the design phase. Achieving interactivity requires <lb/>an increasingly sophisticated allocation of computational resources in order to perform realistic design <lb/>analyses and generate feedback in real time. <lb/>This paper presents our initial efforts to develop techniques to apply distributed algorithms to the <lb/>problem of recognizing machining features from solid models. Existing work on recognition of features <lb/>has focused exclusively on serial computer architectures. Our objective is to show that distributed <lb/>algorithms can be employed on realistic parts with large numbers of features and many geometric and <lb/>topological entities to obtain significant improvements in computation time using existing hardware and <lb/>software tools. Migrating solid modeling applications toward a distributed computing framework enables <lb/>interconnection of many of the autonomous and geographically diverse software tools used in the modern <lb/>manufacturing enterprise. <lb/>This has been implemented on a network of SUN workstations using the ACIS solid modeler and the <lb/>NIH C++ class library; inter-processor communication is handled with TCP/IP-based network communication tools. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Multiprocessor Solid Modeling, Feature Recognition, Feature-Based Modeling, Distributed <lb/>Computing. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">This work was supported in part by NSF Grants IRI9306580, DDM-9201779, EEC 94-02384 and a forgivable loan from <lb/>General Electric Corporation awarded to the first author. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed <lb/>in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">Also affiliated with: Computer Science Department and Institute for Systems Research, University of Maryland, College <lb/>Park. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>