<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="91"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Unifying Framework <lb/>for <lb/>Conceptual Data Modelling Concepts <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>P.J.M. Frederiks, A.H.M. ter Hofstede, E. Lippe <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Information Systems <lb/>University of Nijmegen <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Toernooiveld 1 <lb/>NL-6525 ED Nijmegen <lb/>The Netherlands <lb/></address>
		<email>fpaulf,arthur,ernstlg@cs.kun.nl <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">Published as:</note>
		<byline><docAuthor>P.J.M. Frederiks, A.H.M. ter Hofstede, and E. Lippe.</docAuthor></byline>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Unifying Framework <lb/>for Conceptual Data Modelling Concepts.</titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<idno>Technical Report CSI-R9410,</idno>
		<byline><affiliation>Computing Science <lb/>Institute, University of Nijmegen,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Nijmegen, The Netherlands,</address>
		<date>September 1994. <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>For succesful information systems development, conceptual data modelling is essential. <lb/>Nowadays many techniques for conceptual data modelling exist, examples are NIAM, FORM, <lb/>PSM, many (E)ER variants, IFO, and FDM. In-depth comparisons of concepts of these techniques is very difficult as the mathematical formalisations of these techniques, if existing at <lb/>all, are very different. As such there is a need for a unifying formal framework providing a <lb/>sufficiently high level of abstraction. In this paper the use of category theory for this purpose <lb/>is addressed. Well-known conceptual data modelling concepts are discussed from a category <lb/>theoretic point of view. Advantages and disadvantages of the approach chosen will be outlined. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Conceptual Data Modelling, Category Theory, Meta Modelling <lb/></keywords>
		<keywords type="classes">Classification: 68P99 (AMS-1991), H.1.0. (CR-1991) <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>