<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="729"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">ON UNAPPROXIMABLE VERSIONS OF NP-COMPLETE <lb/>PROBLEMS <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>DAVID ZUCKERMAN <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. <lb/>We prove that all of Karp&apos;s 21 original NP -complete problems have a version that&apos;s hard to <lb/>approximate. These versions are obtained from the original problems by adding essentially the same, <lb/>simple constraint. We further show that these problems are absurdly hard to approximate. In fact, no <lb/>polynomial-time algorithm can even approximate log (k) of the magnitude of these problems to within <lb/>any constant factor, where log (k) denotes the logarithm iterated k times, unless N P is recognized by <lb/>slightly superpolynomial randomized machines. We use the same technique to improve the constant <lb/>* such that MAX CLIQUE is hard to approximate to within a factor of n * . Finally, we show that it <lb/>is even harder to approximate two counting problems: counting the number of satisfying assignments <lb/>to a monotone 2-SAT formula and computing the permanent of -1,0,1 matrices. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words. NP-complete, unapproximable, randomized reduction, clique, counting problems, <lb/>permanent, 2SAT <lb/></keywords>
		<keywords>AMS subject classifications. 68Q15, 68Q25, 68Q99 <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction.</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>