<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="767"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Approximate Analysis of Parallel Processor Allocation Policies * <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Rajesh K. Mansharamani and Mary K. Vernon <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>(mansha@cs.wisc.edu) </email> <email>(vernon@cs.wisc.edu) <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Sciences Department <lb/>University of Wisconsin <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>1210 West Dayton Street <lb/>Madison, WI 53706. <lb/></address>
		<date>November 29, 1993 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The complexity of parallel applications and parallel processor scheduling policies makes both exact analysis and simulation difficult, if not intractable, for large systems. In this paper we propose a new approach <lb/>to performance modeling of multiprogrammed processor scheduling policies, that of interpolation approximations. We first define a workload model that contains parameters for the essential properties of parallel <lb/>applications with respect to scheduling discipline performance, yet lends itself to mathematical analysis. Key <lb/>features of the workload model include general distribution of total job processing time, general distribution <lb/>of available job parallelism, and a simple characterization of parallelism overheads. We then show that one <lb/>can find specific values of the system parameters for which the parallel system under a given scheduling <lb/>policy reduces to a queueing system with a known (closed-form) solution. Finally, interpolation between <lb/>the points with known solutions is used to arrive at mean response time estimates that hold over the entire <lb/>system parameter space. The interpolation approximations readily yield insight into policy behavior and are <lb/>easy to evaluate for systems with hundreds of processors. <lb/>We illustrate the approach by developing and validating models of three scheduling policies, under the <lb/>assumptions of linear job execution rates and independence between job parallelism and processing time. <lb/>We discuss several insights and results obtained from the analysis of the three policies under the assumed <lb/>workloads. One result clarifies and generalizes observations in two previous simulation studies of how policy <lb/>performance varies with the coefficient of variation in job processing requirement. Another result of the <lb/>interpolation models yields new insight into how policy performance varies with job parallelism. We also <lb/>comment on the generalizations of these insights for workloads with less restrictive assumptions. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This research was partially supported by the National Science Foundation under grants CCR-9024144 and CDA-9024618. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>