<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="125"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Exploiting the Temporal Structure of MPEG Video <lb/>for the Reduction of Bandwidth Requirements <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Marwan Krunz and Satish Tripathi <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Advanced Computer Studies <lb/>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>Email: krunz@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We propose a new bandwidth allocation scheme for VBR video traffic in ATM networks. <lb/>The scheme is tailored to MPEG-coded video sources that require stringent and deterministic <lb/>quality-of-service guarantees. By exploiting the temporal structure of MPEG sources, we show <lb/>that our scheme results in an effective bandwidth which, in most cases, is less than the source <lb/>peak rate. The reduction in the bandwidth requirement is achieved without sacrificing any <lb/>perceived QoS. Efficient procedures are provided for the computation of the effective bandwidth <lb/>under heterogeneous MPEG sources. The effective bandwidth strongly depends on the arrangement of the multiplexed streams which is a measure of the degree of synchronization between the <lb/>GOP patterns of different streams. Assuming that all possible arrangements are equi-probable, <lb/>we derive an expression for the asymptotic tail distribution of the effective bandwidth. From <lb/>the tail distribution, we compute several performance measures for the call blocking probability <lb/>when the allocation is made based on the effective bandwidth. In the case of homogeneous <lb/>sources, we give a closed-form expression for the `best&apos; arrangement that results in the `optimal&apos; <lb/>effective bandwidth. Numerical examples based on real MPEG traces are used to demonstrate <lb/>the advantages of our scheme. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: bandwidth allocation, MPEG, statistical multiplexing, CAC. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">This research was partially supported by the NSF grant # CCR 9318933. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
	</front>
</text>
</tei>