<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1069"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
        <note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">25 January 2010<lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Strangeness  in Astrophysics and Cosmology <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>   T  Boeckel , M Hempel , I Sagert , G Pagliara , B Sa'd ,<lb/> J Schaffner-Bielich<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institut  f체r Theoretische Physik, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit채t,  </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Philosophenweg 16,<lb/> 69120 Heidelberg, Germany<lb/></address>    
		<byline><affiliation>Institut f체r Theoretische Physik, Goethe Universit채t, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Max-von-Laue-Str. 1,<lb/> 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany<lb/></address>
		<email>E-mail:  schaffner@thphys.uni-heidelberg.de<lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">  Abstract.  Some recent developments concerning the role of strange quark matter<lb/> for astrophysical systems and the QCD phase transition in the early universe are<lb/> addressed. Causality constraints of the soft nuclear equation of state as extracted<lb/> from subthreshold kaon production in heavy-ion collisions are used to derive an upper<lb/> mass limit for compact stars. The interplay between the viscosity of strange quark<lb/> matter and the gravitational wave emission from rotation-powered pulsars are outlined.<lb/> The flux of strange quark matter nuggets in cosmic rays is put in perspective with a<lb/> detailed numerical investigation of the merger of two strange stars. Finally, we discuss<lb/> a novel scenario for the QCD phase transition in the early universe, which allows for<lb/> a small inflationary period due to a pronounced first order phase transition at large<lb/> baryochemical potential.<lb/></div>
		<introduction>1. Introduction<lb/></introduction>
        </front>
</text>
</tei>