<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">SuperWeb: Towards a Global Web-Based Parallel Computing Infrastructure <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Albert D. Alexandrov, Maximilian Ibel, Klaus E. Schauser, and Chris J. Scheiman <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of California, Santa Barbara <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Santa Barbara, CA 93106 <lb/></address>
		<email>fberto,ibel,schauser,chrissg@cs.ucsb.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The Internet, best known by most users as the WorldWide-Web, continues to expand at an amazing pace. We <lb/>propose a new infrastructure to harness the combined resources, such as CPU cycles or disk storage, and make them <lb/>available to everyone interested. This infrastructure has the <lb/>potential for solving parallel supercomputing applications <lb/>involving thousands of cooperating components. Our approach is based on recent advances in Internet connectivity <lb/>and the implementation of safe distributed computing embodied in languages such as Java. <lb/>We developed a prototype of a global computing infrastructure, called SuperWeb, that consists of hosts, brokers <lb/>and clients. Hosts register a fraction of their computing resources (CPU time, memory, bandwidth, disk space) with <lb/>resource brokers. Client computations are then mapped by <lb/>the broker onto the registered resources. We examine an economic model for trading computing resources, and discuss <lb/>several technical challenges associated with such a global <lb/>computing environment. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Global computing, Internet, Java, WorldWide-Web, massively parallel computing, secure computing, <lb/>microeconomic model. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>