<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="169"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">1995 Computer Science Department MQP <lb/>Review <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Robert E. Kinicki <lb/>Craig E. Wills <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>Worcester Polytechnic Institute <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Worcester, MA 01609 <lb/></address>
		<idno>WPI-CS-TR-95-01 <lb/></idno>
		<date>August 1, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This report presents results of a peer review of MQPs conducted within <lb/>the Computer Science Department during the Summer of 1995 as part of a <lb/>campus-wide MQP review. The goal of the report is to assess whether the <lb/>department MQPs are accomplishing their educational goals. The report <lb/>identifies problems that need to be addressed and trends that need to be <lb/>continued to make the MQPs a worthwhile learning experience. It reflects <lb/>data and evaluations for 27 MQPs, involving 43 computer science students, <lb/>that were completed between the Summer of 1994 and the Spring of 1995. <lb/>The report also makes comparisons to similar reviews done in 1991 and 1993. <lb/>Overall, the large majority of the projects are meeting the educational <lb/>goals of the department as good learning experiences. The reviews indicate <lb/>the overall quality of the projects is good, about the same as in 1993 and <lb/>a little better than 1991. The report draws a number of conclusions about <lb/>the success of the projects based upon the data collected and evaluations <lb/>done for this review. The report concludes with recommendations for future <lb/>projects. <lb/></div>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>