<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="765"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Kerberos: An Authentication Service for Open Network Systems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jennifer G. Steiner <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Project Athena <lb/>Massachusetts Institute of Technology <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<email>steiner@ATHENA.MIT.EDU <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Clifford Neuman <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>FR-35 <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Washington <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Seattle, WA 98195 <lb/></address>
		<email>bcn@CS.WASHINGTON.EDU <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jeffrey I. Schiller <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Project Athena <lb/>Massachusetts Institute of Technology <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<email>jis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>In an open network computing environment, a workstation cannot be trusted to <lb/>identify its users correctly to network services. Kerberos provides an alternative <lb/>approach whereby a trusted third-party authentication service is used to verify users&apos; <lb/>identities. This paper gives an overview of the Kerberos authentication model as implemented for MIT&apos;s Project Athena. It describes the protocols used by clients, servers, and <lb/>Kerberos to achieve authentication. It also describes the management and replication of <lb/>the database required. The views of Kerberos as seen by the user, programmer, and <lb/>administrator are described. Finally, the role of Kerberos in the larger Athena picture is <lb/>given, along with a list of applications that presently use Kerberos for user authentication. We describe the addition of Kerberos authentication to the Sun Network File System as a case study for integrating Kerberos with an existing application. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>