<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1080"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
	<front>
        <note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review</note>
        <date type="submission">23 March 2010<lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Implications  of space-momentum correlations and<lb/> geometric fluctuations in heavy-ion collisions<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Paul  Sorensen<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Brookhaven  National Laboratory,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>P.O. Box 5000, Upton, NY 11973<lb/></address>
	    <email>E-mail:  prsorensen@bnl.gov<lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.  The standard picture of heavy-ion collisions includes a collective<lb/> expansion. If the initial energy density in the collisions is lumpy, then the expansion<lb/> can convert the spatial lumpiness into correlations between final-state particles.<lb/> Correlations in heavy-ion collisions show prominent features not present in p+p<lb/> collisions. I argue that many features of these correlations are related to the<lb/> transference of over-densities from the initial overlap region into momentum-space<lb/> during the QGP phase of the expansion. I show results from a toy Monte-Carlo to<lb/> illustrate the consequences of lumpy initial conditions and a collective expansion.<lb/></div>
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 25.75.-q, 25.75.Ld<lb/></keywords>
		<note type="submission">Submitted  to:  J.  Phys. G: Nucl. Phys.<lb/></note>
		<introduction>1. Introduction<lb/></introduction>
    </front>
</text>
</tei>