<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="417"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Use of Architecture-Altering Operations to Dynamically <lb/>Adapt a Three-Way Analog Source Identification Circuit to <lb/>Accommodate a New Source <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>John R. Koza <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Dept. <lb/>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Stanford, California 94305-9020 <lb/></address>
		<email>koza@cs.stanford.edu <lb/></email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www-cs <lb/>faculty.stanford.edu/~koza/ <lb/></ptr>
		<byline><docAuthor>Forrest H Bennett III <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Visiting Scholar <lb/>Computer Science Dept. <lb/>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Stanford, California 94305 <lb/></address>
		<email>forrest@evolute.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jason Lohn <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Visiting Scholar <lb/>Computer Science Dept. <lb/>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Stanford, California 94305 <lb/></address>
		<email>jlohn7@leland.stanford.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Frank Dunlap <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dunlap Consulting <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Palo Alto, California <lb/></address>
		<byline><docAuthor>Martin A. Keane <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Martin Keane Inc. <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>5733 West Grover <lb/>Chicago, Illinois 60630 <lb/></address>
		<email>makeane@ix.netcom.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>David Andre <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Division <lb/>University of California <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Berkeley, California <lb/></address>
		<email>dandre@cs.berkeley.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>The problem of source <lb/>identification involves correctly <lb/>classifying an incoming signal into <lb/>a category that identifies the <lb/>signal&apos;s source. <lb/>The problem is difficult because <lb/>information is not provided <lb/>distinguishing characteristics and <lb/>because successive signals from the <lb/>same source differ. The source <lb/>identification problem can be made <lb/>more difficult by dynamically <lb/>changing the repertoire of sources <lb/>while the problem is being solved. <lb/>We used genetic programming to <lb/>evolve both the topology and the <lb/>sizing (numerical values) for each <lb/>component of an analog electrical <lb/>circuit that can correctly classify an <lb/>incoming analog electrical signal <lb/>into three categories. Then, the <lb/>repertoire of sources was <lb/>dynamically changed by adding a <lb/>new source during the run. The <lb/>paper describe show the <lb/>enabled genetic programming to <lb/>adapt, during the run, to the <lb/>changed environment. Specifically, <lb/>a three-way source identification <lb/>circuit was evolved and then <lb/>adapted into a four-way classifier, <lb/>during the run, thereby successfully <lb/>handling the additional new source. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>