<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="197"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Combinatory Differential Fields: <lb/>An Algebraic Approach to <lb/>Approximate Computation and <lb/>Constructive Analysis <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Karl Aberer <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<idno>TR-91-061 <lb/></idno>
		<date>November 1991 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The algebraic structure of combinatory differential fields is constructed to provide a semantics for computations in analysis. In this setting programs, approximations, limits and operations of analysis are represented <lb/>as algebraic terms. Analytic algorithms can be derived by algebraic methods. The main tool in this construction are combinatory models which are inner algebras of Engeler graph models. As an universal domain <lb/>of denotational semantics the lattice structure of the graph models allows to give a striking simple semantics <lb/>for computations with approximations. As models of combinatory algebra they provide all essential computational constructs, including recursion. Combinatory models are constructed as extensions of first order <lb/>theories. The classical first order theory to describe analysis is the theory of differential fields. It turns out <lb/>that two types of computational constructs, namely composition and piecewise definition of functions, are <lb/>preferably introduced as extensions of the differential fields theory. Combinatory differential fields are then <lb/>the combinatory models of these enriched differential fields. We show for basic algorithms of computational <lb/>analysis how their combinatory counterparts are derived in the algebraic setting. We illustrate how these <lb/>algorithms are suitable to be implemented in a computer algebra environment like mathematica. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">Part of this work was done while the author was at ETH Zurich.</note> <note type="submission">Submitted to Journal of Symbolic <lb/>Computation. <lb/></note>
		<address>International Computer Science Institute, Berkeley, CA 94704.</address>
		<email>email: aberer@icsi.berkeley.edu.</email>
		<note type="grant">Supported by Schweizerische Gesellschaft zur Forderung der Informatik und ihrer Anwendungen <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>