<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="514"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Appeared in Proceedings of the 1994 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Sensing Polygon Poses by Inscription <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Yan-Bin Jia Michael Erdmann <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>The Robotics Institute <lb/>School of Computer Science <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3891 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Industrial assembly involves sensing the pose (orientation and position) of a part. Efficient and reliable <lb/>sensing strategies can be developed for an assembly <lb/>task if the shape of the part is known in advance. In <lb/>this paper we investigate the problem of determining <lb/>the pose of a convex n-gon from a set of m supporting <lb/>cones, i.e., cones with both sides supporting the polygon. An algorithm with running time O(nm) which <lb/>almost always reduces to O(n + m log n) is presented <lb/>to solve for all possible poses of the polygon. As a consequence, the polygon inscription problem of finding all <lb/>possible poses for a convex n-gon inscribed in another <lb/>convex m-gon, can be solved within the same asymptotic time bound. We prove that the number of possible poses cannot exceed 6n, given m 2 supporting <lb/>cones with distinct vertices. Experiments demonstrate <lb/>that two supporting cones are sufficient to determine <lb/>the real pose of the n-gon in most cases. <lb/>Our results imply that sensing in practice can be <lb/>carried out by obtaining viewing angles of a planar <lb/>part at multiple exterior sites in the plane. As a conclusion, we generalize this and other sensing methods <lb/>into a scheme named sensing by inscription. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>