<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="89"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Finding Genes in DNA with a Hidden Markov Model <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>John Henderson Steven Salzberg Kenneth H. Fasman <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This study describes a new Hidden Markov Model (HMM) system for segmenting uncharacterized genomic DNA sequences into exons, introns, and intergenic <lb/>regions. Separate HMM modules were designed and trained for specific regions of <lb/>DNA: exons, introns, intergenic regions, and splice sites. The models were then <lb/>tied together to form a biologically feasible topology. The integrated HMM was <lb/>trained further on a set of eukaryotic DNA sequences, and tested by using it to <lb/>segment a separate set of sequences. The resulting HMM system, which is called <lb/>VEIL (Viterbi Exon-Intron Locator), obtains an overall accuracy on test data of <lb/>92% of total bases correctly labelled, with a correlation coefficient of 0.68. Using the more stringent test of exact exon prediction, VEIL correctly located both <lb/>ends of 46% of the exons. Moreover, more than 50% of the exons it predicts are <lb/>exactly correct. These results compare favorably to the best previous results for <lb/>gene structure prediction, and demonstrate the benefits of using HMMs for this <lb/>problem. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>