<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Perfect Simulation of some Point Processes <lb/>for the Impatient User <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Elke Thonnes <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Statistics, University of Warwick <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<date>February 9, 1998 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Recently Propp and Wilson [14] have proposed an algorithm, called <lb/>Coupling from the Past (CFTP), which allows not only an approximate but perfect (i.e. exact) simulation of the stationary distribution <lb/>of certain finite state space Markov chains. Perfect Sampling using <lb/>CFTP has been successfully extended to the context of point processes, amongst other authors, by Haggstrom et al. [5]. In [5] Gibbs <lb/>sampling is applied to a bivariate point process, the penetrable spheres <lb/>mixture model [19]. However, in general the running time of CFTP <lb/>in terms of number of transitions is not independent of the state sampled. Thus an impatient user who aborts long runs may introduce a <lb/>subtle bias, the user impatience bias. Fill [3] introduced an exact sampling algorithm for finite state space Markov chains which, in contrast <lb/>to CFTP, is unbiased for user impatience. Fill&apos;s algorithm is a form <lb/>of rejection sampling and similar to CFTP requires sufficient mono-tonicity properties of the transition kernel used. We show how Fill&apos;s <lb/>version of rejection sampling can be extended to an infinite state space <lb/>context to produce an exact sample of the penetrable spheres mixture <lb/>process and related models. Following [5] we use Gibbs sampling and <lb/>make use of the partial order of the mixture model state space. Thus <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">Research supported by EPSRC earmarked studentship and University of Warwick <lb/>graduate award. Postal address:</note>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Statistics, University of Warwick,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Coventry, <lb/>CV4 7AL, UK <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>