<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1034"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Volumetric Prediction of Cardiac <lb/> Electrophysiology using a Heart Model <lb/> Personalised to Surface Data <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>J. Relan  1  , M. Sermesant  1,4  , M. Pop  3  , H. Delingette  1  , <lb/> M. Sorine  2  , G. A. Wright  3  and N. Ayache  1 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1  Asclepios Project, INRIA,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Sophia Antipolis, France <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>2  Sisyphe Project, INRIA,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Paris-Rocquencourt, France <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>3  Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Univ. of Toronto,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Canada <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>4  Division of Imaging Sciences, St. Thomas Hospital, King&apos;s College London. <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. Predictive cardiac electrophysiology models can provide a <lb/> substantial aid in the success of the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias. <lb/> Sufficiently accurate model predictions highly depend on the personali- <lb/> sation of the model i.e. estimation of patient-specific model parameters. <lb/> In this paper, we evaluate the prediction ability of a simplified ionic 3D <lb/> cardiac electrophysiology model, the Mitchell-Schaeffer model (2003), af- <lb/> ter personalisation. The personalisation is performed by optimising the <lb/> model parameters, using the epicardial surface depolarisation and repo- <lb/> larisation maps obtained ex-vivo from optical imaging of large porcine <lb/> healthy heart. We also evaluate the sensitivity of the personalisation <lb/> method to a pacing location and the estimated parameter values. This <lb/> is done by comparing the personalisation results obtained with left ven- <lb/> tricle endocardial pacing location to those obtained with right ventricle <lb/> epicardial pacing location. Later, using the personalised electrophysiol- <lb/> ogy model, we predict the volumetric depolarisation and repolarisation <lb/> time isochrones for right ventricle endocardial and left ventricle epicar- <lb/> dial pacing locations and evaluate the epicardial isochrones against the <lb/> actual maps obtained from the optical data. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>