<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="564"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Cellular Encoding Applied to Neurocontrol <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Darrell Whitley, Frederic Gruau and Larry Pyeatt <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>Colorado State University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA <lb/></address>
		<email>whitley,gruau,pyeatt@cs.colostate.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Neural networks are trained for balancing 1 <lb/>and 2 poles attached to a cart on a fixed <lb/>track. For one variant of the single pole system, only pole angle and cart position variables are supplied as inputs; the network <lb/>must learn to compute velocities. All of the <lb/>problems are solved using a fixed architecture <lb/>and using a new version of cellular encoding that evolves an application specific architecture with real-valued weights. The learning times and generalization capabilities are <lb/>compared for neural networks developed using both methods. After a post processing <lb/>simplification, topologies produced by cellular encoding were very simple and could be <lb/>analyzed. Architectures with no hidden units <lb/>were produced for the single pole and the two <lb/>pole problem when velocity information is <lb/>supplied as an input. Moreover, these linear <lb/>solutions display good generalization. For all <lb/>the control problems, cellular encoding can <lb/>automatically generate architectures whose <lb/>complexity and structure reflect the features <lb/>of the problem to solve. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>