<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="159"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Recovering Shape by Purposive Viewpoint Adjustment <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Kiriakos N. Kutulakos Charles R. Dyer <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Sciences Department <lb/>University of Wisconsin <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Madison, Wisconsin 53706 <lb/></address>
		<idno>Technical Report #1035 <lb/></idno>
		<date>August 1991 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We present an approach for recovering surface shape from the occluding contour using an active (i.e., moving) observer. It is based on a relation between the geometries of <lb/>a surface in a scene and its occluding contour: If the viewing direction of the observer <lb/>is along a principal direction for a surface point whose projection is on the contour, <lb/>surface shape (i.e., curvature) at the surface point can be recovered from the contour. <lb/>Unlike previous approaches for recovering shape from the occluding contour, we use an <lb/>observer that purposefully changes viewpoint in order to achieve a well-defined geometric relationship with respect to a 3D shape prior to its recognition. We show that there <lb/>is a simple and efficient viewing strategy that allows the observer to align their viewing <lb/>direction with one of the two principal directions for a point on the surface. This strategy depends on only curvature measurements on the occluding contour and therefore <lb/>demonstrates that recovering quantitative shape information from the contour does not <lb/>require knowledge of the velocities or accelerations of the observer. Experimental results <lb/>demonstrate that our method can be easily implemented and can provide reliable shape <lb/>information from the occluding contour. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">The support of the National Science Foundation under Grant No. IRI-9002582 is gratefully acknowledged. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>