<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="188"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Route Guidance Support in Intelligent Transportation <lb/>Systems: An Encoded Path View Approach <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<idno>University of Michigan Technical Report 1995. <lb/></idno>
		<byline><docAuthor>Yun-Wu Huangy, Ning Jingz, and Elke A. Rundensteinery <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>e-mail: [ywh j jning j rundenst] @eecs.umich.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science <lb/>University of Michigan,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Ann Arbor, MI 48109 <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Electrical Engineering <lb/>Changsha Institute of Technology,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Changsha, Hunan, P.R. China <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Efficient path computation necessary for route guidance has been identified as one of the key requirements <lb/>for Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) applications. While the current ITS literature has focused on <lb/>the application of search algorithms (typically, heuristic A* algorithms) to provide for compute-on-demand <lb/>path finding, we propose an encoded path view approach that precomputes optimal paths. Advantages of <lb/>our approach include (1) route search is efficient and less dependent on system load, (2) alternative paths <lb/>are materialized in addition to the optimal paths, simplifying the process of global optimization, (3) the <lb/>storage overhead is manageable and less than for the full enumeration of all possible paths. In this paper, <lb/>we present algorithms for incrementally updating the encoded path view structure in response to weight <lb/>changes on the traffic links of the underlying network. Despite non-optimal paths also being materialized, our <lb/>algorithms are designed to operate on cyclic planar graphs | given that ITS maps typically correspond to <lb/>highly interconnected grid structures. In this paper, we show that while our approach does not encode all <lb/>paths, it omits some non-optimal paths to resolve cycle ambivalence and will recover them once they become <lb/>optimal. Proofs of correctness and of complexity are also given. We demonstrate the potential of our approach <lb/>by presenting experimental results of evaluating our approach both on randomly generated as well as on real <lb/>city map data. Our experiments furthermore compare the proposed approach against more conventional path <lb/>searching algorithms, which correspond to the state-of-the-art for route guidance in ITS. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Index Terms | View Materialization, Encoded Path Structure, Route Guidance, Path Retrieval, Map Databases, <lb/>Cycle Detection. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">This work was supported in part by the University of Michigan ITS Center of Excellence grant (DTFH61-93-X-00017-Sub) <lb/>sponsored by the U.S. Department of Transportation and by the Michigan Department of Transportation. Ning Jing, on leave <lb/>from the Changsha Institute of Technology, is currently visiting the University of Michigan and likes to thank the State Education <lb/>Commission of P.R. China. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>