<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="804"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Integrating Security in a Group Oriented Distributed System <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Michael Reiter Kenneth Birman Li Gong <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Computer Science ORA Corporation <lb/>Cornell University Cornell University</affiliation></byline>
		<address>675 Massachusetts Ave. <lb/>Ithaca, NY 14853 Ithaca, NY 14853 Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<email>reiter@cs.cornell.edu </email> <email>ken@cs.cornell.edu </email> <email>li@cambridge.oracorp.com <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A distributed security architecture is proposed for <lb/>incorporation into group oriented distributed systems, <lb/>and in particular, into the Isis distributed programming toolkit. The primary goal of the architecture is <lb/>to make common group oriented abstractions robust <lb/>in hostile settings, in order to facilitate the construction of high performance distributed applications that <lb/>can tolerate both component failures and malicious attacks. These abstractions include process groups and <lb/>causal group multicast. Moreover, a delegation and <lb/>access control scheme is proposed for use in group <lb/>oriented systems. The focus of the paper is the security architecture; particular cryptosystems and key <lb/>exchange protocols are not emphasized. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>