<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1049"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Back to Basics - Again - for Domain Specific <lb/> Retrieval <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Ray R. Larson <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Information <lb/> University of California, Berkeley, USA <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<email>ray@sims.berkeley.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>  In this paper we will describe Berkeley&apos;s approach to the Domain Specific (DS) track <lb/> for CLEF 2008. Last year we used Entry Vocabulary Indexes and Thesaurus expansion <lb/> approaches for DS, but found in later testing that some simple text retrieval approaches <lb/> had better results than these more complex query expansion approaches. This year <lb/> we decided to revisit our basic text retrieval approaches and see how they would stack <lb/> up against the various expansion approaches used by other groups. The results are <lb/> now in and the answer is clear, they perform pretty badly compared to other groups&apos; <lb/> approaches. <lb/> All of the runs submitted were performed using the Cheshire II system. This year <lb/> the Berkeley/Cheshire group submitted a total of twenty-four runs, including two for <lb/> each subtask of the DS track. These include six Monolingual runs for English, German, <lb/> and Russian, twelve Bilingual runs (four X2EN, four X2DE, and four X2RU), and six <lb/> Multilingual runs (two EN, two DE, and two RU). The overall results include Cheshire <lb/> runs in the top five participants for each task, but usually as the lowest of the five (and <lb/> often fewer) groups. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Categories and Subject Descriptors <lb/>  H.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: H.3.1 Content Analysis and Indexing; H.3.3 Infor- <lb/> mation Search and Retrieval <lb/>  General Terms <lb/>  Algorithms, Performance, Measurement <lb/>  Keywords <lb/>  Cheshire II, Logistic Regression, Entry Vocabulary Indexes <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>