<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Mobile Robot Localization using Landmarks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Margrit Betke <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Massachusetts Institute of Technology <lb/>Laboratory for Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<byline><docAuthor>Leonid Gurvits <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>NEC Research Institute <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>4 Independence Way <lb/>Princeton, NJ 08540 <lb/></address>
		<date>April 27, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We describe an efficient method for localizing a mobile robot in an environment with landmarks. We assume that the robot can identify these landmarks <lb/>and measure their bearings relative to each other. Given such noisy input, the <lb/>algorithm estimates the robot&apos;s position and orientation with respect to the <lb/>map of the environment. The algorithm makes efficient use of our representation of the landmarks by complex numbers. The algorithm runs in time linear <lb/>in the number of landmarks. We present results of simulations and propose <lb/>how to use our method for robot navigation. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Robotics, mobile robot localization, landmark navigation, map <lb/>algorithms, triangulation. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">Part of this research was done while the author was visiting Siemens Corporate Research. The <lb/>author is also supported by NSF grant ASC-9217041. Author&apos;s net address:</note>
		<email>margrit@lcs.mit.edu <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">Author&apos;s net address:</note>
		<email>gurvits@research.nj.nec.com <lb/></email>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>