<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="124"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">On Hybrid Synthesis for Hierarchical Structured Petri Nets <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Hong Liu Jun-Cheol Park Raymond E. Miller <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Maryland,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>flhong, jcpark, millerg@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>April 23, 1996 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We propose a hybrid method for synthesis of hierarchical structured Petri nets. In a top-down manner, we decompose a system into a set of subsystems at each level of abstraction, each <lb/>of these is specified as a blackbox Petri net that has multiple inputs and outputs. We stipulate <lb/>that each subsystem satisfies the following I/O constraints: (1) At any instance of time, at <lb/>most one of the inputs can be activated; and (2) If one input is activated, then the subsystem <lb/>must consume the input and produce exactly one output within a finite length of time. We <lb/>give a stepwise refinement procedure which starts from the initial high-level abstraction of the <lb/>system and expands an internal place of a blackbox Petri net into a more detailed subnet at <lb/>each step. By enforcing the I/O constraints of each subsystem in each intermediate abstraction, <lb/>our refinement maintains the sequencing of transitions prescribed by the initial abstraction of <lb/>the system. Next, for the bottom-up synthesis, we present interconnection rules for sequential, <lb/>parallel, and loop structures and prove that each rule maintains the I/O constraints. Thus, by <lb/>incorporating these interconnection rules into our refinement formulation, our approach can be <lb/>regarded as a hybrid Petri net synthesis technique that employs both top-down and bottom-up <lb/>methods. The major advantage of the method is that the modeling details can be introduced <lb/>incrementally and naturally, while the important logical properties of the resulting Petri net are <lb/>guaranteed. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This research was supported by NASA Grant No. NAG 5-2648. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>