<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="230"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Real-Time Reliable Multicast Using Proactive Forward Error Correction <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dan Rubenstein, Jim Kurose, and Don Towsley <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>University of Massachusetts <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Amherst, MA 01003 <lb/></address>
		<email>fdrubenst, kurose, towsleyg@cs.umass.edu <lb/></email>
		<idno>Technical Report 98-19 <lb/></idno>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<date>March 1998 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Real-Time reliable multicast over a best-effort service network remains a challenging research problem. Most <lb/>protocols for reliable multicast use repair techniques that result in significant and variable delay, which can lead to <lb/>missed deadlines in real-time scenarios. This paper presents a repair technique that combines forward error correction <lb/>(FEC) with automatic repeat request (ARQ). The novel aspect of the technique is its ability to reduce delay in reliable <lb/>multicast delivery by sending repairs proactively (i.e., before they are required). The technique requires minimal <lb/>state at senders and receivers, and no additional active router functionality beyond what is required by the current <lb/>multicast service model. Furthermore, the technique uses only end-to-end mechanisms, where all data and repairs are <lb/>transmitted by the data-originating source, leaving receivers free from any burden of sending repairs. We simulate <lb/>a simple round-based version of a protocol embodying this technique to show its effectiveness in preventing repair <lb/>request implosion, reducing the expected time of reliable delivery of data, and keeping bandwidth usage for repairs <lb/>low. We show how a protocol using the technique can be adapted to provide delivery that is reliable before a real-time <lb/>deadline with probabilities extremely close to one. Finally, we develop several variations of the protocol that use the <lb/>technique in various fashions for high rate data streaming applications, and present results from additional simulations <lb/>that examine performance in a variety of Internet-like heterogeneous networks. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>