<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1007"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<idno>arXiv:0811.1219v2 [astro-ph]</idno>
		<date>30 Jun 2009 <lb/></date>
		<note type="reference">Mon. Not. R. Astron. Soc. 000, 1?7 (2008) <lb/></note>
		<date>Printed 30 June 2009 <lb/> </date>
		<note type="other">(MN L  A  T E X style file v2.2) <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The growth of supermassive black holes in pseudo-bulges, <lb/>classical bulges and elliptical galaxies <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dimitri A. Gadotti  ?  and Guinevere Kauffmann <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Max-Planck-Institut für Astrophysik,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Karl-Schwarzschild-Str. 1, D-85748 Garching bei München, Germany <lb/></address>
		<date>30 June 2009 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/> Using results from structural analysis of a sample of nearly 1000 local galaxies from the <lb/> Sloan Digital Sky Survey, we estimate how the mass in central black holes is distributed <lb/> amongst elliptical galaxies, classical bulges and pseudo-bulges, and investigate the <lb/> relation between their stellar masses and central stellar velocity dispersion ?. Assuming <lb/> a single relation between elliptical galaxy/bulge mass, M  Bulge  , and central black hole <lb/> mass, M  BH  , we find that 55  +8 <lb/> ?4  per cent of the mass in black holes in the local universe <lb/> is in the centres of elliptical galaxies, 41  +4 <lb/> ?2  per cent in classical bulges and 4  +0.9 ?0.4 <lb/> per cent in pseudo-bulges. We find that ellipticals, classical bulges and pseudo-bulges <lb/> follow different relations between their stellar masses and ?, and the most significant <lb/> offset occurs for pseudo-bulges in barred galaxies. This structural dissimilarity leads <lb/> to discrepant black hole masses if single M  BH  ? M  Bulge  and M  BH  ? ? relations are <lb/> used. Adopting relations from the literature, we find that the M  BH  ? ? relation yields <lb/> an estimate of the total mass density in black holes that is roughly 55 per cent larger <lb/> than if the M  BH  ? M  Bulge  relation is used. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words: galaxies: bulges ? galaxies: evolution ? galaxies: formation ? galaxies: <lb/> fundamental parameters ? galaxies: kinematics and dynamics ? galaxies: photometry <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 INTRODUCTION <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>