<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="519"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 3 (1995) 53-118 </note><note type="submission">Submitted 3/95; published 7/95 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Building and Refining Abstract Planning Cases <lb/>by Change of Representation Language <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Ralph Bergmann</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>bergmann@informatik.uni-kl.de <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Wolfgang Wilke</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>wilke@informatik.uni-kl.de <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Centre for Learning Systems and Applications (LSA) <lb/>University of Kaiserslautern,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>P.O.-Box 3049, D-67653 Kaiserslautern, Germany <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Abstraction is one of the most promising approaches to improve the performance of problem <lb/>solvers. In several domains abstraction by dropping sentences of a domain description as <lb/>used in most hierarchical planners has proven useful. In this paper we present examples <lb/>which illustrate significant drawbacks of abstraction by dropping sentences. To overcome <lb/>these drawbacks, we propose a more general view of abstraction involving the change of <lb/>representation language. We have developed a new abstraction methodology and a related <lb/>sound and complete learning algorithm that allows the complete change of representation <lb/>language of planning cases from concrete to abstract. However, to achieve a powerful <lb/>change of the representation language, the abstract language itself as well as rules which <lb/>describe admissible ways of abstracting states must be provided in the domain model. <lb/>This new abstraction approach is the core of Paris (Plan Abstraction and Refinement <lb/>in an Integrated System), a system in which abstract planning cases are automatically <lb/>learned from given concrete cases. An empirical study in the domain of process planning <lb/>in mechanical engineering shows significant advantages of the proposed reasoning from <lb/>abstract cases over classical hierarchical planning. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>