<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="783"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Asking Questions to Minimize Errors <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Nader H. Bshouty <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>The University of Calgary <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>2500 University Drive N.W. <lb/>Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 1N4 <lb/></address>
		<email>bshouty@cpsc.ucalgary.ca <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sally A. Goldman <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>Washington University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>St. Louis, MO 63130 <lb/></address>
		<email>sg@cs.wustl.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Thomas R. Hancock <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Siemens Corporate Research, Inc. <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>755 College Road East <lb/>Princeton, NJ 08540 <lb/></address>
		<email>hancock@learning.siemens.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sleiman Matar <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>The University of Calgary <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>2500 University Drive N.W. <lb/>Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 1N4 <lb/></address>
		<email>sleiman@cpsc.ucalgary.ca <lb/></email>
		<date>September 1993 <lb/></date>
		<idno>WUCS-93-23 <lb/></idno>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A number of efficient learning algorithms achieve exact identification of an unknown function <lb/>from some class using membership and equivalence queries. Using a standard transformation <lb/>such algorithms can easily be converted to on-line learning algorithms that use membership <lb/>queries. Under such a transformation the number of equivalence queries made by the query <lb/>algorithm directly corresponds to the number of mistakes made by the on-line algorithm. In <lb/>this paper we consider several of the natural classes known to be learnable in this setting, and <lb/>investigate the minimum number of equivalence queries with accompanying counterexamples <lb/>(or equivalently the minimum number of mistakes in the on-line model) that can be made by a <lb/>learning algorithm that makes a polynomial number of membership queries and uses polynomial <lb/>computation time. We are able both to reduce the number of equivalence queries used by the <lb/>previous algorithms and often to prove matching lower bounds. As an example, consider the <lb/>class of DNF formulas over n variables with at most k = O(log n) terms. Previously, the <lb/>algorithm of Blum and Rudich [BR92] provided the best known upper bound of 2 O(k) log n for <lb/>the minimum number of equivalence queries needed for exact identification. We greatly improve <lb/>on this upper bound showing that exactly k counterexamples are needed if the learner knows k a <lb/>priori and exactly k +1 counterexamples are needed if the learner does not know k a priori. This <lb/>exactly matches known lower bounds [BC92]. For many of our results we obtain a complete <lb/>characterization of the tradeoff between the number of membership and equivalence queries <lb/>needed for exact identification. The classes we consider here are monotone DNF formulas, Horn <lb/>sentences, O(log n)-term DNF formulas, read-k sat-j DNF formulas, read-once formulas over <lb/>various bases, and deterministic finite automata. <lb/></div>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>