<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="422"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">COMPUTER GRAPHICS Proceedings, Annual Conference Series,</note>
		<date>1994 <lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Fast Volume Rendering Using a Shear-Warp Factorization <lb/>of the Viewing Transformation <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Philippe Lacroute <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Systems Laboratory <lb/>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Marc Levoy <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Several existing volume rendering algorithms operate by factoring the viewing transformation into a 3D shear parallel to the data <lb/>slices, a projection to form an intermediate but distorted image, <lb/>and a 2D warp to form an undistorted final image. We extend <lb/>this class of algorithms in three ways. First, we describe a new <lb/>object-order rendering algorithm based on the factorization that is <lb/>significantly faster than published algorithms with minimal loss <lb/>of image quality. Shear-warp factorizations have the property that <lb/>rows of voxels in the volume are aligned with rows of pixels in the <lb/>intermediate image. We use this fact to construct a scanline-based <lb/>algorithm that traverses the volume and the intermediate image in <lb/>synchrony, taking advantage of the spatial coherence present in <lb/>both. We use spatial data structures based on run-length encoding <lb/>for both the volume and the intermediate image. Our implementation running on an SGI Indigo workstation renders a 256 3 voxel <lb/>medical data set in one second. Our second extension is a shear-warp factorization for perspective viewing transformations, and <lb/>we show how our rendering algorithm can support this extension. <lb/>Third, we introduce a data structure for encoding spatial coherence <lb/>in unclassified volumes (i.e. scalar fields with no precomputed <lb/>opacity). When combined with our shear-warp rendering algorithm this data structure allows us to classify and render a 256 3 <lb/>voxel volume in three seconds. The method extends to support <lb/>mixed volumes and geometry and is parallelizable. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>CR Categories: I.3.7 [Computer Graphics]: Three-Dimensional <lb/>Graphics and Realism; I.3.3 [Computer Graphics]: Picture/Image <lb/>Generation|Display Algorithms. <lb/>Additional Keywords: Volume rendering, Coherence, Scientific <lb/>visualization, Medical imaging. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>