<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="646"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Coarse-Grained Parallel <lb/>QR-Factorization Algorithm for <lb/>Sparse Least Squares Problems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Tz. Ostromsky P. C. Hansen Z. Zlatev <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A sparse QR-factorization algorithm SPARQR for coarse-grained parallel <lb/>computations is described. The coefficient matrix, which is assumed to be <lb/>general sparse, is reordered in an attempt to bring as many zero elements in <lb/>the lower left corner as possible. The reordered matrix is then partitioned into <lb/>block rows, and Givens plane rotations are applied in each block-row. These are <lb/>independent tasks and can be done in parallel. Row and column permutations <lb/>are carried out within the diagonal blocks in an attempt to preserve better the <lb/>sparsity of the matrix. <lb/>The algorithm can be used for solving least squares problems either directly <lb/>or combined with an iterative method (preconditioned conjugate gradients are <lb/>used). Small non-zero elements can optionally be dropped in the latter case. <lb/>This leads to a better preservation of the sparsity and, therefore, to a faster <lb/>factorization. The price which has to be paid is some loss of accuracy. The <lb/>iterative method is used to regain the accuracy lost during the factorization. <lb/>Numerical results from several experiments with matrices from the well-known Harwell-Boeing collection as well as with some larger sparse matrices are <lb/>presented in this work. An SGI Power Challenge computer with 16 processors <lb/>has been used in the experiments. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: coarse-grained parallelism, least squares problem, QR-factorization, <lb/>general sparse matrix, drop-tolerance, reordering, partitioning, block algorithm. <lb/></keywords>
		<byline><affiliation>Purdue University, Department of Computer Science, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: tto@cs.purdue.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute of Mathematical Modelling, Technical University of Denmark, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Bldg. 305, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: pch@imm.dtu.dk <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>National Environmental Research Institute,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Frederiksborgvej 399, DK-4000 Roskilde, Denmark <lb/></address>
		<email>e-mail: luzz@sun2.dmu.dk <lb/></email>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>