<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="696"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Ratio Rules: <lb/>A New Paradigm for Fast, Quantifiable Data Mining <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Flip Korn, Alexandros Labrinidis, Yannis Kotidis <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>{flip,labrinid,kotidis}@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Christos Faloutsos <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 <lb/></address>
		<email>christos@cs.cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Association Rule Mining algorithms operate <lb/>on a data matrix (e.g., customers fi products) <lb/>to derive association rules [2, 23]. We propose a new paradigm, namely, Ratio Rules, <lb/>which are quantifiable in that we can measure <lb/>the &quot;goodness&quot; of a set of discovered rules. <lb/>We propose to use the &quot;guessing error&quot; as a <lb/>measure of the &quot;goodness&quot;, that is, the root-mean-square error of the reconstructed values <lb/>of the cells of the given matrix, when we pretend that they are unknown. Another contribution is a novel method to guess missing/hidden values from the Ratio Rules that <lb/>our method derives. For example, if somebody bought $10 of milk and $3 of bread, our <lb/>rules can &quot;guess&quot; the amount spent on, say, <lb/>butter. Thus, we can perform a variety of important tasks such as forecasting, answering <lb/>&quot;what-if&quot; scenarios, detecting outliers, and visualizing the data. Moreover, we show how to <lb/>compute Ratio Rules in a single pass over the <lb/>dataset with small memory requirements (a <lb/>few small matrices), in contrast to traditional <lb/>association rule mining methods that require <lb/>multiple passes and/or large memory. Experiments <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">Work performed while at the University of Maryland. This <lb/>research was partially funded by the Institute for Systems Research (ISR), and by the National Science Foundation under <lb/>Grants No. EEC-94-02384, IRI-9205273 and IRI-9625428. <lb/></note>
		<note type="copyright">Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is <lb/>granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for <lb/>direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and <lb/>the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is <lb/>given that copying is by permission of the Very Large Data Base <lb/>Endowment. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee <lb/>and/or special permission from the Endowment. <lb/></note>
		<note type="reference">Proceedings of the 24th VLDB Conference <lb/>New York, USA, 1998 <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">on several real datasets (e.g., basketball and baseball statistics, biological data) <lb/>demonstrate that the proposed method consistently achieves a &quot;guessing error&quot; of up to <lb/>5 times less than the straightforward competi <lb/>tor. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>