<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="642"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">PYTHIA: A Knowledge Based System <lb/>for Intelligent Scientific Computing <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sanjiva Weerawarana, Elias N. Houstis, John R. Rice, Anupam Joshi <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Purdue University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>and <lb/>Catherine E. Houstis <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Crete <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<keywords>Categories and Subject Descriptors: I.2.1 [Artificial Intelligence]: Applications and Expert <lb/>Systems; G.1.8 [Numerical Analysis]: Partial Differential Equations <lb/>General Terms: Knowledge Based Systems <lb/>Additional Key Words and Phrases: Computational Intelligence, Knowledge Based Systems, Partial Differential Equations, Performance Evaluation, Problem Solving Environments <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="abstract">1. ABSTRACT <lb/>Domain specific Problem Solving Environments (PSEs) are the key new ingredients that will aid in the widespread use of Computational Science &amp; Engineering <lb/>(CS&amp;E) systems. Each PSE consists of a well defined library that supports the <lb/>numerical and symbolic solution of certain mathematical model(s) characterizing a <lb/>specific discipline, together with an easy to use software environment. This environment should ideally interact with the user in a language &quot;natural&quot; to the associated <lb/>discipline, and provide a high level abstraction of the underlying, computationally <lb/>complex, model. However, it appears that almost all extant PSEs assume that <lb/>the user is familiar with the specific functionality/applicability of the PSE. Their <lb/>primary design objective is to support some form of high level programming with <lb/>predefined state-of-the-art algorithmic infrastructure. As the functionality of these <lb/>systems increases, the user is expected to make complex decisions in the parametric space of the algorithmic infrastructure supported by the PSE. In this paper <lb/>we describe a knowledge based system, PYTHIA, to automate this decision making process and aid in providing a high level abstraction to the user. Specifically, <lb/>PYTHIA addresses the problem of (parameter, algorithm) pair selection within a <lb/>scientific computing domain assuming some minimum user specified computational <lb/>objectives and some characteristics of the given problem. PYTHIA&apos;s framework <lb/>and methodology is general and applicable to any class of scientific problems and <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">Work supported in part by AFOSR award 91-F49620, NSF awards CCR 86-19817, CCR 92-02536, <lb/>and ASC 9404859. <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">Authors&apos; addresses:</note>
		<byline><docAuthor>S. Weerawarana, E.N. Houstis, J.R. Rice and A. Joshi:</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Sciences, Purdue University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA;</address>
		<byline><docAuthor>C.E. Houstis:</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of <lb/>Computer Science, University of Crete,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Heraklion, Greece. <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>