<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="62"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Why Ants are Hard <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>W. B. Langdon and R. Poli <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computer Science,  The University of Birmingham,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Birmingham B15 2TT, UK <lb/></address>
		<email>fW.B.Langdon,R.Polig@cs.bham.ac.uk</email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~wbl, ~rmp <lb/></ptr>
		<note type="phone">Tel: +44 (0) 121 414 4791, Fax: +44 (0) 121 414 4281 <lb/></note>
		<idno>Technical Report: CSRP-98-4 <lb/></idno>
		<date>January 1998 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The problem of programming an artificial ant to follow the Santa Fe trail is used as an example <lb/>program search space. Analysis of shorter solutions shows they have many of the characteristics <lb/>often ascribed to manually coded programs. Enumeration of a small fraction of the total search <lb/>space and random sampling characterise it as rugged with many multiple plateaus split by deep <lb/>valleys and many local and global optima. This suggests it is difficult for hill climbing algorithms. <lb/>Analysis of the program search space in terms of fixed length schema suggests it is highly deceptive <lb/>and that for the simplest solutions large building blocks must be assembled before they have above <lb/>average fitness. In some cases we show solutions cannot be assembled using a fixed representation <lb/>from small building blocks of above average fitness. These suggest the Ant problem is difficult for <lb/>Genetic Algorithms. <lb/>Random sampling of the program search space suggests on average the density of global optima <lb/>changes only slowly with program size but the density of neutral networks linking points of the same <lb/>fitness grows approximately linearly with program length. This is part of the cause of bloat. <lb/>Previously reported genetic programming, simulated annealing and hill climbing performance is <lb/>shown not to be much better than random search on the Ant problem. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>