<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="631"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Modeling Communication in Parallel Algorithms: <lb/>A Fruitful Interaction between Theory and Systems? <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jaswinder Pal Singh * , Edward Rothberg , and Anoop Gupta * <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>* Computer Systems Laboratory Intel Supercomputer Systems <lb/>Stanford University</affiliation></byline>
		<address>14924 NW Greenbrier Pkwy, CO6-09 <lb/>Stanford, CA 94305 Beaverton, OR 97006 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Recently, several theoretical models of parallel architectures have been proposed to replace the PRAM as the model <lb/>that is presented to an algorithm designer. A primary focus of <lb/>the new models is to include the cost of interprocessor communication, which is increasingly important in modern parallel <lb/>architectures. We argue that modeling the communication costs <lb/>in the architecture or system is only one part of the problem. <lb/>The other, and usually much more difficult, part is modeling <lb/>the communication properties of the algorithm itself, which <lb/>provides necessary inputs into the architectural model to determine overall complexity. In this context, we make three main <lb/>points in this paper: (i) It is incomplete to describe communication without regard to its relationship with replication. We <lb/>propose a description of the communication-replication relationship in terms of the working set hierarchy of an algorithm. <lb/>(ii) Both inherent communication and the communication-replication relationship can be very difficult to model in irregular, dynamic computations that are crucial in many real-world <lb/>applications. We present some examples that demonstrate this <lb/>difficulty. (iii) We believe that substantial leverage can be <lb/>obtained in this effort from the computer systems community, <lb/>which can provide a hierarchy of simulation and profiling <lb/>toolsfrom abstract to detailedtailored to the needs of the <lb/>algorithm designers. We propose an initial set of simulation <lb/>tools, and we discuss possible future refinements to this set. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>