<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="444"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Observations on Cognitive Judgments <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>David McAllester <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>dam@ai.mit.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>It is obvious to anyone familiar with the rules of the game of chess <lb/>that a king on an empty board can reach every square. It is true, but <lb/>not obvious, that a knight can reach every square. Why is the first <lb/>fact obvious but the second fact not? This paper presents an analytic <lb/>theory of a class of obviousness judgments of this type. Whether or <lb/>not the specifics of this analysis are correct, it seems that the study of <lb/>obviousness judgments can be used to construct integrated theories of <lb/>linguistics, knowledge representation, and inference. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This report describes research done at the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory of the Massachusetts <lb/>Institute of Technology. Support for the work described in this paper was provided in part by <lb/>Misubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc. Support for the laboratory&apos;s artificial intelligence <lb/>research is provided in part by the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department of <lb/>Defense under Office of Naval Research contract N00014-85-K-0124. <lb/></note>
		<note type="reference">This paper appeared in AAAI-91. </note>
		<note type="other">A postscript electronic source for this paper can be found in <lb/>ftp.ai.mit.edu:/pub/dam/aaai91a.ps. A bibtex reference can be found in ftp.ai.mit.edu:/pub/dam/dam.bib. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>