<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="526"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="other">The official version of this paper has been published by <lb/> </note><note type="reference">American Association of Artificial Intelligence (http://www.aaai.org). <lb/> Paper appears in AAAI-98. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Fast Probabilistic Modeling for Combinatorial Optimization <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Shumeet Baluja <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>baluja@cs.cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Justsystem Pittsburgh Research Center &amp; <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Scott Davies <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>scottd@cs.cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computer Science <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Probabilistic models have recently been utilized for the optimization of large combinatorial search problems. However, <lb/>complex probabilistic models that attempt to capture inter-parameter dependencies can have prohibitive computational <lb/>costs. The algorithm presented in this paper, termed <lb/>COMIT, provides a method for using probabilistic models in <lb/>conjunction with fast search techniques. We show how <lb/>COMIT can be used with two very different fast search algorithms: hillclimbing and Population-based incremental <lb/>learning (PBIL). The resulting algorithms maintain many of <lb/>the benefits of probabilistic modeling, with far less computational expense. Extensive empirical results are provided; <lb/>COMIT has been successfully applied to jobshop scheduling, traveling salesman, and knapsack problems. This paper <lb/>also presents a review of probabilistic modeling for combi <lb/>natorial optimization. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Background</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>