<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="691"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 10 (Proceedings of NIPS?97), <lb/> pp.1050?1056. MIT Press. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Multi-time Models for Temporally Abstract <lb/>Planning <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Doina Precup, Richard S. Sutton <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Massachusetts <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Amherst, MA 01003 <lb/></address>
		<email>fdprecupjrichg@cs.umass.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Planning and learning at multiple levels of temporal abstraction is a key <lb/>problem for artificial intelligence. In this paper we summarize an approach to this problem based on the mathematical framework of Markov <lb/>decision processes and reinforcement learning. Current model-based reinforcement learning is based on one-step models that cannot represent <lb/>common-sense higher-level actions, such as going to lunch, grasping an <lb/>object, or flying to Denver. This paper generalizes prior work on temporally abstract models [Sutton, 1995] and extends it from the prediction <lb/>setting to include actions, control, and planning. We introduce a more <lb/>general form of temporally abstract model, the multi-time model, and establish its suitability for planning and learning by virtue of its relationship <lb/>to the Bellman equations. This paper summarizes the theoretical framework of multi-time models and illustrates their potential advantages in a <lb/>gridworld planning task. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">The need for hierarchical</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>