<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="272"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">On Yao&apos;s XOR-Lemma <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Oded Goldreich Noam Nisan Avi Wigderson x <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<date>March 1995 (corrected Dec. 1995 and March 1998) <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A fundamental Lemma of Yao states that computational weak-unpredictability <lb/>of functions gets amplified if the results of several independent instances are XOR <lb/>together. We survey two known proofs of Yao&apos;s Lemma and present a third alternative proof. The third proof proceeds by first proving that a function constructed <lb/>by concatenating the values of the function on several independent instances is much <lb/>more unpredictable, with respect to specified complexity bounds, than the original <lb/>function. This statement turns out to be easier to prove than the XOR-Lemma. <lb/>Using a result of Goldreich and Levin and some elementary observation, we derive <lb/>the XOR-Lemma. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">Work done in part while the authors were visiting BRICS, Basic Research in Computer Science, Center <lb/>of the Danish National Research Foundation. <lb/>Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, <lb/>Israel. Partially supported by grant No. 92-00226 from the United States - Israel Binational Science <lb/>Foundation (BSF), Jerusalem, Israel. <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Computer Science, Hebrew University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Jerusalem, Israel. <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>x Institute for Computer Science, Hebrew University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Jerusalem, Israel. <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>