<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<idno>CAR-TR-858 <lb/>N00014-95-1-0521 <lb/></idno>
		<date>June 1997 <lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Information-Conserving Object Recognition <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Margrit Betke and Nicholas C. Makris : <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Vision Laboratory <lb/>Center for Automation Research <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742-3275 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The problem of recognizing objects imaged in complex real-world scenes is examined from <lb/>a parametric perspective using the theory of statistical estimation. A scalar measure of an <lb/>object&apos;s complexity, which is invariant under affine transformation and changes in image noise <lb/>level, is extracted from the object&apos;s Fisher information. The volume of Fisher information is <lb/>shown to provide an overall statistical measure of the object&apos;s recognizability in a particular <lb/>image, while the complexity provides an intrinsically physical measure that characterizes the <lb/>object in any image. An information-conserving method is then developed for recognizing <lb/>an object imaged in a complex scene. Here the term &quot;information-conserving&quot; means that <lb/>the method uses all the measured data pertinent to the object&apos;s recognizability, attains the <lb/>theoretical lower bound on estimation error for any unbiased estimate of the parameter vector <lb/>describing the object, and therefore is statistically optimal. This method is then successfully <lb/>applied to finding objects imaged in thousands of complex real-world scenes. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">The support of the Office of Naval Research under Contract N00014-95-1-0521 is gratefully acknowledged. Author&apos;s new address (starting September 1997):</note>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science, Boston College, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Fulton Hall, Chestnut Hill, MA 02167.</address>
		<email>Email: betke@cs.bc.edu <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">N. C. Makris was with the Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC 20375. His new address is</note>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Ocean Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, MA 02138. <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>