<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The OPENET Architecture <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Israel Cidon <lb/>Tony Hsiao <lb/>Asad Khamisy <lb/>Abhay Parekh <lb/>Raphael Rom <lb/>Moshe Sidi <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<idno>SMLI TR-95-37</idno>
		<date>December 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract: <lb/>ATM networks will soon be moving from the experimental stage of test-beds to a commercial state <lb/>where production networks are deployed and operated. The progress of ATM networks appears to be <lb/>at risk due to the lack of a universal, open, and efficient ATM network control platform. The emerging <lb/>Private Network to Network Interface (PNNI) standard introduces a control platform that can be used <lb/>as an internetwork and possibly as an intra-network solution. However, the current PNNI still falls short <lb/>in providing an acceptable universal solution, due to lack of performance optimizations for intra-network operation, limited functionality, and the lack of open interfaces for future functional extensions <lb/>and services. <lb/>OPENET is a common portable, open, and high-performance network control platform based on performance and functional enhancements to the PNNI standard. It is vendor-independent, scalable (in <lb/>terms of network size and volume of calls), high-performance (in terms of call processing latency and <lb/>throughput), and extensible (in terms of integrating customer-specific and value-added services). <lb/>OPENET is designed as an extension to current PNNI so it can serve as a next generation PNNI. It is <lb/>compatible with PNNI in the internetworking environment allowing large networks to be partitioned <lb/>according to natural topological or organizational boundaries rather than the artificial use of internet-work interfaces at vendor boundaries. <lb/>This report describes the OPENET architecture. The major novelties of the OPENET architecture compared to the current PNNI are: the use of native ATM switching for the dissemination of utilization <lb/>updates; lightweight call setup; take down and modification signaling; a new signaling paradigm that <lb/>better supports fast reservation and multicast services; and a rich signaling infrastructure that enables <lb/>the development of augmented services (such as mobility, directory, etc.), leveraging the existing functions of the network control platform. <lb/></div>
		<email>email address: <lb/>raphael.rom@eng.sun.com <lb/></email>
		<address>M/S 29-01 <lb/>2550 Garcia Avenue <lb/>Mountain View, CA 94043 <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>