<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="554"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Simulating Soft Shadows <lb/>with Graphics Hardware <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Paul S. Heckbert and Michael Herf <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<date>January 15, 1997 <lb/></date>
		<idno>CMU-CS-97-104 <lb/></idno>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computer Science <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 <lb/></address>
		<email>email: ph@cs.cmu.edu, </email> <email>herf+@cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<ptr type="web">World Wide Web: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~ph <lb/></ptr>
		<note type="other">This paper was written in April 1996. An abbreviated version appeared in </note>
		<note type="reference">[Michael Herf and Paul S. Heckbert, Fast <lb/>Soft Shadows, Visual Proceedings, SIGGRAPH 96, Aug. 1996, p. 145]. <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper describes an algorithm for simulating soft shadows at interactive rates using graphics hardware. On current graphics <lb/>workstations, the technique can calculate the soft shadows cast by moving, complex objects onto multiple planar surfaces in <lb/>about a second. In a static, diffuse scene, these high quality shadows can then be displayed at 30 Hz, independent of the number <lb/>and size of the light sources. <lb/>For a diffuse scene, the method precomputes a radiance texture that captures the shadows and other brightness variations on <lb/>each polygon. The texture for each polygon is computed by creating registered projections of the scene onto the polygon from <lb/>multiple sample points on each light source, and averaging the resulting hard shadow images to compute a soft shadow image. <lb/>After this precomputation, soft shadows in a static scene can be displayed in real-time with simple texture mapping of the <lb/>radiance textures. All pixel operations employed by the algorithm are supported in hardware by existing graphics workstations. <lb/>The technique can be generalized for the simulation of shadows on specular surfaces. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This work was supported by NSF Young Investigator award CCR-9357763. The views and conclusions contained in this document are those of the authors and <lb/>should not be interpreted as representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of NSF or the U.S. government. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>