<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="468"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Proc. UIST &apos;93 (ACM Symp. on User Interface Software and Technology), Atlanta GA, November 3-5, 1993, 145-155 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Windows on the World: <lb/>2D Windows for 3D Augmented Reality <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Steven Feiner <lb/>Blair MacIntyre <lb/>Marcus Haupt <lb/>Eliot Solomon <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>Columbia University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>New York, NY 10027 <lb/></address>
		<note type="phone">212-939-7000 <lb/></note>
		<email>{feiner, bm, haupt, esolomon}@cs.columbia.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION <lb/>We describe the design and implementation of a prototype When we think of the use of head-mounted displays and 3D <lb/>heads-up window system intended for use in a 3D environ- interaction devices to present virtual worlds, it is often in <lb/>ment. Our system includes a see-through head-mounted terms of environments populated solely by 3D objects. <lb/>display that runs a full X server whose image is overlaid on There are many situations, however, in which 2D text and <lb/>the user&apos;s view of the physical world. The user&apos;s head is graphics of the sort supported by current window systems <lb/>tracked so that the display indexes into a large X bitmap, can be useful components of these environments. This is <lb/>effectively placing the user inside a display space that is especially true in the case of the many applications that run <lb/>mapped onto part of a surrounding virtual sphere. By under an industry standard window system such as X [13]. <lb/>tracking the user&apos;s body, and interpreting head motion rela- While we might imagine porting or enhancing a significant <lb/>tive to it, we create a portable information surround that X application to take advantage of the 3D capabilities of a <lb/>envelopes the user as they move about. virtual world, the effort and cost may not be worth the <lb/>return, especially if the application is inherently 2D. <lb/>We support three kinds of windows implemented on top of Therefore, we have been exploring how we can incorporate <lb/>the X server: windows fixed to the head-mounted display, an existing 2D window system within a 3D virtual world. <lb/>windows fixed to the information surround, and windows <lb/>fixed to locations and objects in the 3D world. Objects can We are building an experimental system that supports a full <lb/>also be tracked, allowing windows to move with them. To X11 server on a see-through head-mounted display. Our <lb/>demonstrate the utility of this model, we describe a small display overlays a selected portion of the X bitmap on the <lb/>hypermedia system that allows links to be made between user&apos;s view of the world, creating an X-based augmented <lb/>windows and windows to be attached to objects. Thus, our reality. Depending on the situation and application, the <lb/>hypermedia system can forge links between any combina- user may wish to treat a window as a stand-alone entity or <lb/>tion of physical objects and virtual windows. to take advantage of the potential relationships that can be <lb/>made between it and the visible physical world. To make <lb/>this possible, we have developed facilities that allow X KEYWORDS: augmented reality, virtual reality, virtual <lb/>windows to be situated in a variety of ways relative to the worlds, head-mounted displays, portable computers, mobile <lb/>user and the 3D world. computing, window systems, X11, hypertext/hypermedia. <lb/>In this paper we first present related work and provide an <lb/>overview of our system. Next, we describe the different <lb/>kinds of windows that we support, and show how these <lb/>windows can be used to advantage by a simple hypermedia <lb/>system. Finally, we explain the underlying system architec- <lb/></div>
		<note type="copyright">Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted <lb/>ture and describe our current implementation. provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct <lb/>commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of <lb/>the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying <lb/>is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To <lb/>copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific <lb/>permission. <lb/>1993 ACM 0-89791-628-X/93/0011 ... $1.50 <lb/>November 3-5, 1993 UIST &apos;93 145 <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>