<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Delay Damage Model Selection Algorithm for NARX <lb/>Neural Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Tsungnan Lin 1;2y ,C. Lee Giles 1;3 , Bill G. Horne 1 , S.Y. Kung 2 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1 NEC Research Institute,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>4 Independence Way, Princeton, NJ 08540 <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>2 Department of Electrical Engineering, Princeton University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Princeton, NJ 08540 <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>3 UMIACS, University of Maryland,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Recurrent neural networks have become popular models for system identification and time <lb/>series prediction. NARX (Nonlinear AutoRegressive models with eXogenous inputs) neural <lb/>network models are a popular subclass of recurrent networks and have been used in many <lb/>applications. Though embedded memory can be found in all recurrent network models, it is <lb/>particularly prominent in NARX models. <lb/>We show that using intelligent memory order selection through pruning and good initial <lb/>heuristics significantly improves the generalization and predictive performance of these nonlinear <lb/>systems on problems as diverse as grammatical inference and time series prediction. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Recurrent neural networks, tapped-delay lines, long-term dependencies, <lb/>time series, automata, memory, temporal sequences, gradient descent training, latching, <lb/>NARX networks, auto-regressive, pruning, embedding theory. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="reference">Published in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, &quot;Special Issue on Neural Networks,&quot; vol. 45, no. 11, p. <lb/>2719-2730, 1997. Copyright IEEE. <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">Current address:</note>
		<byline><affiliation>Epson Palo Alto Laboratory,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>3145 Porter Drive, Suite 104, Palo Alto, CA 94304 <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>