<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="776"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">PRECONDITIONING FOR REGULAR ELLIPTIC SYSTEMS <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Hsing-Hsia Chen <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Mathematics <lb/>Chung-Yuan Christian University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Chung-Li, 320, Taiwan <lb/></address>
		<byline><docAuthor>and <lb/>John C. Strikwerday <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Sciences <lb/>University of Wisconsin - Madison <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Madison, WI <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. In this paper we examine preconditioning operators for regular elliptic <lb/>systems of partial differential operators. We obtain general conditions under which the <lb/>preconditioned systems are bounded. We also provide some useful guidelines for choosing <lb/>left and right preconditioning operators for regular elliptic systems. The condition numbers <lb/>of the discrete operators arising from these preconditioned operators are shown to be <lb/>bounded independent of grid spacing. Several examples of the two-dimensional regular <lb/>elliptic systems are discussed, including scalar elliptic operators and the Stokes operator <lb/>with several different boundary conditions. Several preconditioners for these regular elliptic <lb/>systems are presented and used in numerical experiments illustrating the theoretical results. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key word. preconditioning, elliptic systems, numerical methods <lb/></keywords>
		<keywords type="classes">AMS subject classifications. 65N06, 65N22 <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction.</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>