<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1090"/> 
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
	<front> 
		<note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">13 July 2010<lb/></date>

		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Curvature  Correction in the Strutinsky's Method<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor>P  Salamon   1,2   and A T Kruppa   1<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>1   Institute  of Nuclear Research of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, </affiliation></byline>	
		<address>Debrecen,<lb/> Bem tér 18/c, Hungary H-4026,<lb/></address>
		
		<byline><affiliation>2   University of Debrecen<lb/> Faculty of Informatics, </affiliation></byline>	
		<address>Debrecen, P.O.Box 12, Hungary H-4010<lb/></address>
		
		<email>E-mail:  salamon@atomki.hu<lb/></email>
		<email>E-mail:  atk@atomki.hu<lb/></email> 
		 
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.<lb/> Mass calculations carried out by Strutinsky's shell correction method are based<lb/> on the notion of smooth single particle level density. The smoothing procedure is<lb/> always performed using curvature correction. In the presence of curvature correction<lb/> a smooth function remains unchanged if smoothing is applied. Two new curvature<lb/> correction methods are introduced. The performance of the standard and new methods<lb/> are investigated using harmonic oscillator and realistic potentials.<lb/></div>
		
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 21.10.Dr, 21.10Ma, 21.10.Pc<lb/></keywords>
		
		<note type="submission">Submitted  to:  J.  Phys. G: Nucl. Phys.<lb/></note>
		
		<note type="title">Curvature  Correction in the Strutinsky's Method<lb/>2<lb/></note> 
		<introduction>1.  Introduction<lb/></introduction>
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              