<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1117"/>  
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>    
    	<idno>DOI:  10.1002/zaac.200700513 <lb/></idno>
    	
		<note type="german-title">Synthese, Struktur und EPR-Untersuchungen von binuklearen Bis(N, N, N񮽙, N񮽙-<lb/> tetraisobutyl-N񮽙, N񮽙-isophthaloylbis(thioureato))-Komplexen des Cu  II  , Ni  II  , Zn  II  ,<lb/> Cd  II  und Pd  II<lb/></note>
		
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Synthesis,  Structure and EPR Investigations of binuclear Bis(N, N, N񮽙, N񮽙-<lb/> tetraisobutyl-N񮽙, N񮽙-isophthaloylbis(thioureato)) Complexes of Cu  II  , Ni  II  , Zn  II  ,<lb/> Cd  II  and Pd  II<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor>Axel Rodenstein, Jan Griebel, Rainer Richter und Reinhard Kirmse*<lb/> </docAuthor></byline>
		
		<address>Leipzig,</address>  
		<byline><affiliation>Institut für Anorganische Chemie der Universität <lb/></affiliation></byline> 
		
		<note type="submission">Bei der Redaktion eingegangen am 15. November 2007.<lb/></note>
		
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. The synthesis of binuclear Cu  II  -, Ni  II  -, Zn  II  -, Cd  II  - and<lb/> Pd  II  -complexes of the quadridentate ligand  N, N, N񮽙, N񮽙-tetraisobu-<lb/>  tyl-N񮽙, N񮽙-isophthaloylbis(thiourea) and the crystal structures of the<lb/> Cu  II  - and Ni  II  -complexes are reported. The Cu  II  -complex crystalli- <lb/> zes in two polymorphic modifications: triclinic, P1 ¯ (Z  񮽙  1) and<lb/> monoclinic, P2  1  /c (Z  񮽙  2). The Ni  II  -complex was found to be iso-<lb/> structural with the triclinic modification of the copper complex.<lb/> The also prepared Pd  II  -, Zn  II  - and Cd  II  -complexes could not be<lb/> characterized by X-ray analysis. However, EPR studies of diamag-<lb/> netically diluted Cu  II  /Pd  II  - and Cu  II  /Zn  II  -powders show axially-<lb/> symmetric g and A  Cu  tensors suggesting a nearly planar co-ordina-<lb/> tion within the binuclear host complexes. Diamagnetically diluted<lb/> Cu  II  /Cd  II  powder samples could not be prepared. In the EPR spec-<lb/> tra of the pure binuclear Cu  II  -complex exchange-coupled Cu  II  -Cu  II<lb/>   pairs were observed. According to the large Cu  II  -Cu  II  distance of<lb/>  about 7, 50 A å small fine structure parameter D  񮽙  26 · 10   񮽙4   cm   񮽙1<lb/>    is observed; T-dependent EPR measurements down to 5 K reveal<lb/>  small antiferromagnetic interactions for the Cu  II  -Cu  II  dimer. Besi-<lb/>  des of the dimer in the EPR spectra the signals of a mononuclear<lb/>  Cu  II  species are observed whose concentration is T-dependent. This<lb/>  observation can be explained assuming an equilibrium between the<lb/>  binuclear Cu  II  -complex (Cu  II  -Cu  II  pairs) and oligomeric complexes<lb/>  with " isolated " Cu  II  ions.<lb/> </div>  

		<keywords>Keywords: Quadridentate N-acylbis(thiourea); Binuclear metal(II)<lb/> complexes; Crystal structures; EPR investigations<lb/></keywords>
		
		<introduction>Einleitung <lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              