<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1100"/> 
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Time  resolved optical emission spectroscopy of an<lb/> HPPMS coating process<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		 
		<byline><docAuthor>S Theiß   1   , N Bibinov   2   , N Bagcivan   1   , M Ewering   1   , P Awakowicz   2<lb/>  and K Bobzin  1<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>1   Surface  Engineering Institute, RWTH Aachen University,  </affiliation></byline> 
		<address>Augustinerbach 4-22,<lb/> D-52062 Aachen, Germany<lb/></address>
				
		<byline><affiliation>2   Institute for Electrical Engineering and Plasma Technology, Ruhr-Universität<lb/> Bochum,  </affiliation></byline> 
		<address>D-44780 Bochum, Germany<lb/></address>
		
		<email>E-mail:  theiss@iot.rwth-aachen.de<lb/></email>
		
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.  This paper deals with the time resolved optical emission spectroscopy<lb/> (OES) of a high power pulse magnetron sputtering (HPPMS) physical vapor deposition<lb/> (PVD) coating process. With an industrial coating unit CC800/9 HPPMS (CemeCon<lb/> AG, Würselen) a (Cr,Al,Si)N coating was deposited. During the coating process, an<lb/> absolute calibrated Echelle-spectrometer (ESA-3000) measured the intensities of the<lb/> spectral lines of Chromium (Cr), Aluminum (Al) and molecular bands of nitrogen<lb/> (N   2   ). Time resolved measurements enable us to calculate different parameters like<lb/> the average velocity of sputtered Al- and Cr-atoms or the internal plasma parameters<lb/> electron density  n   e   and electron temperature kT   e   with a time resolution of 20  µs.  With<lb/> these parameters, we determine the ionization rates of Al-, Cr-, Ar- and Kr-atoms and<lb/> the deposition densities of Al- and Cr-atoms. Thus simulated deposition densities of<lb/> 1.75  ·  10   20   m   −2   s   −1   for Chromium and 1.7  ·  10   22   m   −2   s   −1   for<lb/> Aluminum are reached.<lb/></div> 
		
		<keywords>Keywords:  HPPMS,  HIPIMS, OES, optical emission spectroscopy, absolute calibrated<lb/></keywords>
		
		<note type="submission">Submitted to:  J.  Phys. D: Appl. Phys.<lb/></note>
		
		<note type="title">Time  resolved optical emission spectroscopy of an HPPMS coating process<lb/>2<lb/></note>
		
   		<introduction>1. Introduction:<lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              