<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="505"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To appear in Proc. 11th Intl. Conf. on Data Engg., 1995 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The AQUA Approach to Querying Lists and <lb/>Trees in Object-Oriented Databases <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Bharathi Subramanian Theodore W. Leung <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Brown University Brown University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Scott L. Vandenberg Stanley B. Zdonik <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Siena College Brown University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Relational database systems and most object-oriented database systems provide support for queries. <lb/>Usually these queries represent retrievals over sets or <lb/>multisets. Many new applications for databases, such <lb/>as multimedia systems and digital libraries, need support for queries on complex bulk types such as lists <lb/>and trees. In this paper we describe an object-oriented <lb/>query algebra for lists and trees. The operators in the <lb/>algebra preserve the ordering between the elements of a <lb/>list or tree, even when the result list or tree contains an <lb/>arbitrary set of nodes from the original tree. We also <lb/>present predicate languages for lists and trees which <lb/>allow order-sensitive queries because they use pattern <lb/>matching to examine groups of list or tree nodes rather <lb/>than individual nodes. The ability to decompose predicate patterns enables optimizations that make use of <lb/>indices. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>