<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Sensor-based Registration and Stacking <lb/>of Electronic Substrate Layers <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Andrew E. Brennemann, 1 Robert Hammer, 2 <lb/>William V. Jecusco II, 3 <lb/>and Ralph L. Hollis 4 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>IBM Research Division <lb/>Thomas J. Watson Research Center <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Yorktown Heights, New York, USA <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Substrates for most of today&apos;s electronic products contain many wiring layers <lb/>which are individually fabricated, mechanically registered with one another, <lb/>and laminated together. Alignment tolerances of 0.05 mm to 0.1 mm are <lb/>sufficient to register the vertical connection pads or vias on each layer. More <lb/>aggressive designs of the future will, however, require manufacturing accuracies of at least an order of magnitude better to accommodate much finer <lb/>wire widths and pin spacings. Conventional equipment relying on mechanical <lb/>&quot;pin-in-slot&quot; methods will likely be inadequate, and a new approach will be <lb/>needed. <lb/>We describe here a sensor-based approach for registration and stacking <lb/>of electronic substrate sublaminates that replaces pin-in-slot methods, yet <lb/>does not require accurate automation equipment. A pilot work cell for this <lb/>approach is presented, which has an IBM 7576 coarse-positioning robot, a <lb/>specially-developed fine-positioning robot, optical sensors, and several routine <lb/>low accuracy fixtures. A novel robot bracing method was used to minimize <lb/>environmental vibration during sublaminate stacking. <lb/>Pairs of test sublaminates, each containing an identical pattern of 100 <lb/>m holes, were aligned, stacked and bonded. The accuracy of registration <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">1 Retired,</note>
		<address>4 Morningside Court, Ossining, NY, 10562.</address>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>