<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="53"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">In press: The Neurobiology of Computation: Proceedings of the Annual Compu--tational Neuroscience Meeting. J.M. Bower, ed. Kluwer Academic Publishers, <lb/>Boston. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">UNSUPERVISED LEARNING OF <lb/>INVARIANT REPRESENTATIONS OF FACES <lb/>THROUGH TEMPORAL ASSOCIATION <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Marian Stewart Bartlett ; <lb/>Terrence J. Sejnowski ; <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>marni@salk.edu, </email> <email>terry@salk.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Departments of Cognitive Science and Psychology, UCSD <lb/> Howard Hughes Medical Institute <lb/>The Salk Institute,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>La Jolla, CA, 92037 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The appearance of an object or a face changes continuously as the observer <lb/>moves through the environment or as a face changes expression or pose. Recognizing an object or a face despite these image changes is a challenging problem <lb/>for computer vision systems, yet we perform the task quickly and easily. This <lb/>simulation investigates the ability of an unsupervised learning mechanism to <lb/>acquire representations that are tolerant to such changes in the image. The <lb/>learning mechanism finds these representations by capturing temporal relationships between 2-D patterns. Previous models of temporal association learning <lb/>have used idealized input representations. The input to this model consists of <lb/>graylevel images of faces. A two-layer network learned face representations that <lb/>incorporated changes of pose up to 30 ffi . A second network learned representations that were independent of facial expression. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>