<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="105"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To appear in Jordan, MI, Kearns MJ, and Solla, SA Advances in Neural Information <lb/>Processing Systems 10. MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, 1998. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Hierarchical Non-linear Factor Analysis <lb/>and Topographic Maps <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Zoubin Ghahramani and Geoffrey E. Hinton <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer Science, University of Toronto <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3H5, Canada <lb/></address>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.cs.toronto.edu/neuron/ <lb/></ptr>
		<email>fzoubin,hintong@cs.toronto.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We first describe a hierarchical, generative model that can be <lb/>viewed as a non-linear generalisation of factor analysis and can <lb/>be implemented in a neural network. The model performs perceptual inference in a probabilistically consistent manner by using <lb/>top-down, bottom-up and lateral connections. These connections <lb/>can be learned using simple rules that require only locally available information. We then show how to incorporate lateral connections into the generative model. The model extracts a sparse, <lb/>distributed, hierarchical representation of depth from simplified <lb/>random-dot stereograms and the localised disparity detectors in <lb/>the first hidden layer form a topographic map. When presented <lb/>with image patches from natural scenes, the model develops topo <lb/>graphically organised local feature detectors. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
	</front>
</text>
</tei>