<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1014"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Statistical Machine Translation Models for Personalized Search <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Rohini U  * <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>AOL India R&amp; D <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Bangalore, India <lb/></address>
		<email>Rohini.uppuluri@corp.aol.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Vamshi Ambati <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Language Technologies Institute <lb/> Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, USA <lb/></address>
		<email>vamshi@cs.cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Vasudeva Varma <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>LTRC, IIIT Hyd <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Hyderabad, India <lb/></address>
		<email>vv@iiit.ac.in <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Web search personalization has been well <lb/> studied in the recent few years. Relevance <lb/> feedback has been used in various ways to <lb/> improve relevance of search results. In this <lb/> paper, we propose a novel usage of relevance <lb/> feedback to effectively model the pro- <lb/> cess of query formulation and better char- <lb/> acterize how a user relates his query to the <lb/> document that he intends to retrieve using <lb/> a noisy channel model. We model a user <lb/> profile as the probabilities of translation of <lb/> query to document in this noisy channel us- <lb/> ing the relevance feedback obtained from the <lb/> user. The user profile thus learnt is applied <lb/> in a re-ranking phase to rescore the search <lb/> results retrieved using an underlying search <lb/> engine. We evaluate our approach by con- <lb/> ducting experiments using relevance feed- <lb/> back data collected from users using a pop- <lb/> ular search engine. The results have shown <lb/> improvement over baseline, proving that our <lb/> approach can be applied to personalization <lb/> of web search. The experiments have also <lb/> resulted in some valuable observations that <lb/> learning these user profiles using snippets <lb/> surrounding the results for a query gives bet- <lb/> ter performance than learning from entire <lb/> document collection. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>