<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Field Guide to Boxology: <lb/>Preliminary Classification of Architectural Styles for <lb/>Software Systems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Mary Shaw and Paul Clements <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department and Software Engineering Institute <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 <lb/></address>
		<date>April 1996 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract: <lb/>Software architects use a number of commonly-recognized styles <lb/>to guide their design of system structures. Each of these is appropriate for <lb/>some classes of problems, but none is suitable for all problems. How, then, <lb/>does a software designer choose an architecture suitable for the problem at <lb/>hand? Two kinds of information are required: (1) <lb/>careful discrimination <lb/>among <lb/>the candidate architectures and (2) <lb/>design guidance <lb/>on how to make <lb/>appropriate choices. Here we support <lb/>careful discrimination <lb/>with a <lb/>preliminary classification of styles. We use a two-dimensional classification <lb/>strategy with control and data issues as the dominant organizing axes. We <lb/>position the major styles within this space and use finer-grained <lb/>discriminations to elaborate variations on the styles. This provides a <lb/>framework for organizing <lb/>design guidance <lb/>, which we partially flesh out with <lb/>rules of thumb. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: <lb/>software architecture, architectural styles, style classification/taxonomy <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">This document was created with FrameMaker 4.0.4 <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>