<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="185"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Using MICE to Study Intelligent Dynamic Coordination <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Edmund H. Durfee and Thomas A. Montgomery <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science <lb/>University of Michigan <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109 <lb/></address>
		<note type="phone">(313) 936-1563 <lb/></note>
		<email>durfee@caen.engin.umich.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We describe a flexible experimental testbed, called MICE, for distributed artificial intelligence <lb/>research. We argue that the adoption of MICE (or some other standard testbed) by the distributed <lb/>artificial intelligence community can draw together the community and permit a much greater level <lb/>of exchange of ideas, formalisms, and techniques. MICE allows an experimenter to specify the <lb/>constraints and characteristics of an environment in which agents are simulated to act and interact, <lb/>and does not assume any particular implementation of an agent&apos;s reasoning architecture. MICE <lb/>therefore provides a platform for investigating and evaluating alternative reasoning architectures <lb/>and coordination mechanisms in many different simulated environments. We outline the design <lb/>of MICE and illustrate its flexibility by describing simulated environments that model the coordination issues in domains such as predators chasing prey, predators attacking each other, agents <lb/>fighting a fire, and diverse robots that are working together. In addition, we note that MICE&apos;s <lb/>ability to simulate multi-agent environments makes it an ideal platform for studying reasoning in <lb/>dynamic worlds; we can associate functionality to arbitrary objects in order to trigger changes in <lb/>the environment. We conclude by discussing the status of MICE and how we are using MICE in <lb/>our current research. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">0 This research was sponsored, in part, by the University of Michigan under a Rackham Faculty Research <lb/>Grant, and by a Bell Northern Research Postgraduate Award. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>