<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1106"/>  
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>
		<note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">25 November 2009<lb/></date>
        
        <note type="title"> Structure  and luminescence of Eu-doped (Ca,Sr)  2  SiS  4  phosphors</note>
        
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Structure  and luminescence of (Ca,Sr)  2  SiS  4  :Eu  2+  phosphors<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor> Anthony B. Parmentier  1  , Philippe F. Smet  1  , Frank Bertram  2  , Jürgen Christen  2  and Dirk Poelman  1 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>1  LumiLab, Department of Solid State Sciences, Ghent University,  </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> Gent (Belgium) <lb/></address> 
		
		<byline><affiliation> 2  Institute of Experimental Physics, Otto-von-Guericke-University </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> Magdeburg (Germany) <lb/></address>
				
		<email> Email: philippe.smet@ugent.be<lb/></email>
		
		<div type="abstract">Sr  2  SiS  4  :Eu  2+  , Ca  2  SiS  4  :Eu  2+  and the solid solution of both, europium-doped (Ca,Sr)  2  SiS  4  , were<lb/> investigated as UV-VIS excitable green to red powder phosphors. Sr  2  SiS  4  :Eu  2+  shows two emission<lb/> bands, peaking at 480 nm and 550 nm. By changing the ratio between Ca  2+  and Sr  2+  , the<lb/>  photoluminescent emission spectrum can be tuned. Using X-ray diffraction, the phase composition<lb/> and lattice parameters of the thiosilicate compounds were determined. The material forms a single,<lb/> monoclinic Sr  2  SiS  4  -like phase up to 40% substitution of Sr  2+  by Ca  2+  . From 50% to 90% of<lb/> substitution by Ca  2+  , phase separation was observed, leading to more complex emission spectra.<lb/> These spectra were studied in detail using photoluminescence spectroscopy, cathodoluminescence<lb/>  microscopy and temperature dependent optical measurements. The thermal quenching temperature<lb/> decreases from 470 K in Ca  2  SiS  4  :Eu  2+  to 380 K in Sr  2  SiS  4  :Eu  2+  upon increasing substitution of<lb/> Ca  2+  by Sr  2+  . The possibilities of these materials as wavelength converters for white LEDs were<lb/> evaluated. <lb/></div> 

		<keywords> Keywords: thiosilicates, europium, light-emitting diodes <lb/></keywords>		 
		
  		<introduction>1 Introduction <lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              