<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="296"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">An Agenda for Research in <lb/>Large-Scale Distributed Data Repositories <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>M. Satyanarayanan <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computer Science <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 <lb/></address>
		<note type="other">Invited Paper for <lb/>Workshop on Operating Systems of the 90s and Beyond <lb/>Dagstuhl Castle, Germany,</note>
		<date>July 1991 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Access to shared data is provided today by distributed file systems and <lb/>databases. In this paper, we explore certain usage and technological trends that <lb/>will radically change the way shared data is used in the future. The usage trends <lb/>include the growing need to access shared data from anywhere, increasing scale, <lb/>and the increasing importance of efficient search. The technology trends include <lb/>the advent of portable machines, the availability of software and hardware for <lb/>using diverse types of data, and the growing diversity of network speeds and <lb/>capabilities. These trends induce fundamental research problems in the areas of <lb/>adaptive system behavior, secure remote execution and extensibility. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This work has been supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Avionics Lab, Wright Research and Development Center, <lb/>Aeronautical Systems Division (AFSC), U.S. Air Force, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, 45433-6543 under Contract F33615-90-C-1465, ARPA <lb/>Order No. 7597), the National Science Foundation (PYI Award), and the IBM Corporation (Research Initiation Grant). The views and <lb/>conclusion expressed in this paper are those of the author, and should not be interpreted as those of the funding agencies or Carnegie Mellon <lb/>University. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>