<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="466"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Integrality and Separability of Input Devices <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Robert J.K. Jacob <lb/>Linda E. Sibert <lb/>Daniel C. McFarlane <lb/>M. Preston Mullen, Jr. <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Human-Computer Interaction Lab <lb/>Naval Research Laboratory <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Washington, D.C. <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>Current input device taxonomies and other frameworks typically emphasize <lb/>the mechanical structure of input devices. We suggest that selecting an <lb/>appropriate input device for an interactive task requires looking beyond the <lb/>physical structure of devices to the deeper perceptual structure of the task, the <lb/>device, and the interrelationship between the perceptual structure of the task and <lb/>the control properties of the device. We affirm that perception is key to <lb/>understanding performance of multidimensional input devices on <lb/>multidimensional tasks. We have therefore extended the theory of processing of <lb/>perceptual structure to graphical interactive tasks and to the control structure of <lb/>input devices. This allows us to predict task and device combinations that lead to <lb/>better performance and hypothesize that performance is improved when the <lb/>perceptual structure of the task matches the control structure of the device. We <lb/>conducted an experiment in which subjects performed two tasks with different <lb/>perceptual structures, using two input devices with correspondingly different <lb/>control structures, a three-dimensional tracker and a mouse. We analyzed both <lb/>speed and accuracy, as well as the trajectories generated by subjects as they used <lb/>the unconstrained three-dimensional tracker to perform each task. The results <lb/>support our hypothesis and confirm the importance of matching the perceptual <lb/>structure of the task and the control structure of the input device. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Input devices, interaction techniques, gesture input, Polhemus <lb/>tracker, perceptual space, integrality, separability. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>