<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1019"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="other">IOP PUBLISHING <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">CLASSICAL AND QUANTUM GRAVITY <lb/></note>
		<note type="reference">Class. Quantum Grav. 25 (2008) 114006 (17pp) <lb/></note>
		<idno>doi:10.1088/0264-9381/25/11/114006 <lb/></idno>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The emergence of spacetime or quantum gravity on <lb/> your desktop <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>R Loll <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Theoretical Physics, Utrecht University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Leuvenlaan 4, NL-3584 CE Utrecht, <lb/> The Netherlands <lb/></address>
		<email>E-mail: r.loll@phys.uu.nl <lb/></email>
		<date>Received 2 November 2007, in final form 18 March 2008 <lb/> Published 15 May 2008 <lb/></date>
		<note type="other">Online at stacks.iop.org/CQG/25/114006 <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/> Is there an approach to quantum gravity which is conceptually simple, relies <lb/>on very few fundamental physical principles and ingredients, emphasizes <lb/>geometric (as opposed to algebraic) properties, comes with a definite numerical <lb/>approximation scheme, and produces robust results, which go beyond showing <lb/>mere internal consistency of the formalism? The answer is a resounding yes: <lb/>it is the attempt to construct a nonperturbative theory of quantum gravity, valid <lb/>on all scales, with the technique of so-called causal dynamical triangulations. <lb/>Despite its conceptual simplicity, the results obtained up to now are far <lb/>from trivial. Most remarkable at this stage is perhaps the fully dynamical <lb/>emergence of a classical background (and solution to the Einstein equations) <lb/>from a nonperturbative sum over geometries, without putting in any preferred <lb/>geometric background at the outset. In addition, there is concrete evidence for <lb/>the presence of a fractal spacetime foam on Planckian distance scales. The <lb/>availability of a computational framework provides built-in reality checks of <lb/>the approach, whose importance can hardly be overestimated. <lb/></div>
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 04.60.Gw, 04.60.Nc <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">(Some figures in this article are in colour only in the electronic version) <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1. Quantum gravity: aims and ambitions <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>