<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="410"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston. Manufactured in The Netherlands. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Method for Automatic Design Error Location and <lb/>Correction in Combinational Logic Circuits <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>AYMAN M. WAHBA AND DOMINIQUE BORRIONE <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Modelisation et Preuves de Circuits, TIMA Laboratory,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>BP 53X, 38041 Grenoble Cedex FRANCE <lb/></address>
		<email>Ayman.Wahba@imag.fr, </email> <email>Dominique.Borrione@imag.fr <lb/></email>
		<note type="other">Received ??. Revised ??. <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. We present a new diagnostic algorithm, based on backward-propagation, for localising design <lb/>errors in combinational logic circuits. Three hypotheses are considered, that cover all single gate replacement and insertion errors. Diagnosis-oriented test patterns are generated in order to rapidly reduce the <lb/>suspected area where the error lies. The originality of our method is the use of patterns which do not <lb/>detect the error, in addition to detecting patterns. A theorem shows that, in favourable cases, only two <lb/>patterns suffice to get a correction. We have implemented the test generation and diagnosis algorithms. <lb/>Results obtained on benchmarks show that the error is always found, after the application of a small <lb/>number of test patterns, with an execution time proportional to the circuit size. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: design correctness, design debugging, design error diagnosis <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>