<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="15"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Integrating Topological and Metric Maps for Mobile Robot Navigation: <lb/>A Statistical Approach <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sebastian Thrun 1 , Steffen Gutmann 2 , Dieter Fox 3 , Wolfram Burgard 3 , and Benjamin J. Kuipers 4 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1 Computer Science Department 2 Institut fur Informatik 3 Institut fur Informatik III 4 Computer Science Department <lb/> Carnegie Mellon University Universitat Freiburg University of Bonn University of Texas at Austin <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 D-79110 Freiburg, Germany D-53117 Bonn, Germany Austin, TX 78712 <lb/></address>
		<note type="submission">submitted to AAAI-98 <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The problem of concurrent mapping and localization has received considerable attention in the mobile robotics community. With few exceptions, existing approaches can largely be <lb/>grouped into two distinct paradigms: topological and metric. <lb/>This paper proposes a method that integrates both paradigms. <lb/>It poses the mapping problem as a statistical maximum likelihood problem, and devises an efficient algorithm for search <lb/>in likelihood space. Based on that, it presents an novel mapping algorithm that integrates two phases: a topological and a <lb/>metric mapping phase. The topological mapping phase solves a <lb/>global position alignment problem between potentially indistinguishable, significant places. The subsequent metric mapping <lb/>phase produces a fine-grained metric map of the environment <lb/>in floating-point resolution. Experimental results in cyclic environments of sizes up to 80 by 25 meters demonstrate the <lb/>appropriateness of this approach. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>