<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="448"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Toward an Analysis of Forward Pruning <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Stephen J. J. Smith <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20740 <lb/></address>
		<email>sjsmith@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dana S. Nau <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Advanced Computer Studies, <lb/>Computer Science Department, <lb/>and Institute for Systems Research <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20740 <lb/></address>
		<email>nau@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>June 30, 1993 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Several early game-playing computer programs used forward pruning (i.e., the practice of <lb/>deliberately ignoring nodes that are believed unlikely to affect a game tree&apos;s minimax value), <lb/>but this technique did not seem to result in good decision-making. The poor performance of <lb/>forward pruning presents a major puzzle for AI research on game playing, because some version <lb/>of forward pruning seems to be &quot;what people do,&quot; and the best chess-playing programs still do <lb/>not play as well as the best humans. <lb/>As a step toward deeper understanding of how forward pruning affects quality of play, in <lb/>this paper we set up a model of forward pruning on two abstract classes of binary game trees, <lb/>and we use this model to investigate how forward pruning affects the accuracy of the minimax <lb/>values returned. The primary result of our study is that forward pruning does better when there <lb/>is a high correlation among the minimax values of sibling nodes in a game tree. <lb/>This result suggests that forward pruning may possibly be a useful decision-making technique <lb/>in certain kinds of games. In particular, we believe that bridge may be such a game. <lb/></div>
		<note type="other">Address correspondence to</note>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dana S. Nau,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Dept., University of Maryland, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742. <lb/></address>
		<note type="grant">This work supported in part by an AT&amp;T Ph.D. scholarship to Stephen J. J. Smith, Maryland Industrial Part <lb/>nerships (MIPS) grant 501.15, Great Game Products, and NSF grants IRI-8907890 and NSFD CDR-88003012. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>