<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="569"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Mining Audit Data to Build Intrusion Detection Models <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Wenke Lee Salvatore J. Stolfo <lb/>Kui W. Mok <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/>Columbia University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>500 West 120th Street, New York, NY 10027 <lb/></address>
		<email>{wenke,sal,mok}@cs.columbia.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>In this paper we discuss a data mining framework for constructing intrusion detection models. <lb/>The key ideas are to mine system audit data for consistent and useful patterns of program and <lb/>user behavior, and use the set of relevant system features presented in the patterns to compute <lb/>(inductively learned) classifiers that can recognize anomalies and known intrusions. Our past experiments showed that classifiers can be used to detect intrusions, provided that sufficient audit <lb/>data is available for training and the right set of system features are selected. We propose to use <lb/>the association rules and frequent episodes computed from audit data as the basis for guiding the <lb/>audit data gathering and feature selection processes. We modify these two basic algorithms to use <lb/>axis attribute(s) as a form of item constraints to compute only the relevant (useful) patterns, and <lb/>an iterative level-wise approximate mining procedure to uncover the low frequency (but important) <lb/>patterns. We report our experiments in using these algorithms on real-world audit data. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Intrusion detection, audit data, classification, association rules, frequent episodes. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">Contact Author:</note>
		<byline><docAuthor>Wenke Lee,</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>wenke@cs.columbia.edu,</email>
		<note type="phone">(212) 939-7078. <lb/></note>
		<note type="grant">This research is supported in part by grants from DARPA (F30602-96-1-0311) and NSF (IRI-96-32225 and CDA-96-25374). <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>