<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="229"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">On Scheduling Two Classes of Real Time Traffic With Identical <lb/>Deadlines <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sridhar Pingali <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering <lb/>University of Masschusetts <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Amherst, MA 01003 <lb/></address>
		<byline><docAuthor>James F. Kurose <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer and Information Science <lb/>Univeristy of Massachusetts <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Amherst, MA 01003 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The problem of scheduling two classes of real-time traffic with correlated time constraints <lb/>is considered. Three scheduling disciplines are studied: a priority discipline which gives strict <lb/>priority to one class of traffic, a threshold-based scheme in which priority is given to one class <lb/>of traffic when the minimum laxity of its queued packets falls below some threshold, and a <lb/>&quot;balancing&quot; scheme which assigns priority on the basis of the differences in minimum laxities in <lb/>the two classes of traffic. Analytic results are obtained by using a discrete time model to obtain <lb/>the state occupancy probabilities for the system. Here, the state is defined using the laxities of <lb/>the queued real time packets. Parameters are defined to study the tradeoff in the performance <lb/>of the two classes of traffic. Results are obtained to demonstrate how the balancing scheme <lb/>permits us to achieve significant improvement in the performance of one class of traffic with <lb/>only minimal effect on the performance of other class. A video application is suggested for this <lb/>work. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>