<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="704"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To appear, Computer Aided Design, 1995 or 1996 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">GENERATING REDESIGN SUGGESTIONS TO REDUCE SETUP COST: <lb/>A STEP TOWARDS AUTOMATED REDESIGN <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Diganta Das <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Mechanical Engr. Dept. and <lb/>Institute for Systems Research, <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>diganta@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Satyandra K. Gupta <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>The Robotics Institute <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 <lb/></address>
		<email>skgupta@isl1.ri.cmu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dana S. Nau <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer Science and <lb/>Institute for Systems Research, <lb/>University of Maryland <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<email>nau@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>All mechanical designs pass through a series of formal and informal redesign steps, involving the analysis of functionality, manufacturability, cost and other life-cycle factors. The <lb/>speed and efficacy of these steps has a major influence on the lead time of the product from <lb/>conceptualization to launching. In this paper we propose a methodology for automatically <lb/>generating redesign suggestions for reducing setup costs for machined parts. <lb/>Given an interpretation of the design as a collection of machinable features, our approach <lb/>is to generate alternate machining features by making geometric changes to the original <lb/>features, and add them to the feature set of the original part to create an extended feature <lb/>set. The designer may provide restrictions on the design indicating the type and extent of <lb/>modifications allowed on certain faces and volumes, in which case all redesign suggestions <lb/>generated by our approach honor those restrictions. <lb/>By taking combinations of features from the extended feature set generated above, we can <lb/>generate modified versions of the original design that still satisfy the designer&apos;s intent. By <lb/>considering precedence constraints and approach directions for the machining operations as <lb/>well as simple fixturability constraints, we can estimate the setup time that will be required <lb/>for each design. Any modified design whose setup time is less than that of the original <lb/>design can be presented to the designer as a possible way to modify the original design. <lb/></div>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>