<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1067"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">   Strange  quark matter in explosive astrophysical<lb/> systems<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>  Irina Sagert     , T. Fischer     , M.Hempel     , G. Pagliara     , J.<lb/> Schaffner-Bielich     , F.-K. Thielemann     , M. Liebendörfer<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute  for Theoretical Physics, Goethe University, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Frankfurt am Main, Germany<lb/></address>    
		<byline><affiliation>Institut für Theoretische Physik, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Heidelberg, Germany<lb/></address>
                <byline><affiliation> Department of Physics, University of Basel, </affiliation></byline>
                <address>4056 Basel, Switzerland<lb/></address>
		<email> E-mail:     sagert@th.physik.uni-frankfurt.de<lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">   Abstract.  Explosive astrophysical systems, such as supernovae or compact star<lb/> binary mergers, provide conditions where strange quark matter can appear. The high<lb/> degree of isospin asymmetry and temperatures of several MeV in such systems may<lb/> cause a transition to the quark phase already around saturation density. Observable<lb/> signals from the appearance of quark matter can be predicted and studied in<lb/> astrophysical simulations. As input in such simulations, an equation of state with<lb/> an integrated quark matter phase transition for a large temperature, density and<lb/> proton fraction range is required. Additionally, restrictions from heavy ion data and<lb/> pulsar observation must be considered. In this work we present such an approach. We<lb/> implement a quark matter phase transition in a hadronic equation of state widely used<lb/> for astrophysical simulations and discuss its compatibility with heavy ion collisions and<lb/> pulsar data. Furthermore, we review the recently studied implications of the QCD<lb/> phase transition during the early post-bounce evolution of core-collapse supernovae<lb/> and introduce the effects from strong interactions to increase the maximum mass of<lb/> hybrid stars. In the MIT bag model, together with the strange quark mass and the bag<lb/> constant, the strong coupling constant  α   s   provides a parameter to set the beginning<lb/> and extension of the quark phase and with this the mass and radius of hybrid stars. <lb/></div>
		<note type="title">Strange  quark matter in explosive astrophysical systems<lb/>2<lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction:</div>
                </front>
</text>
</tei>