<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="313"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Raising Roofs, Crashing Cycles, and Playing Pool: <lb/>Applications of a Data Structure for Finding Pairwise Interactions <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>David Eppstein Jeff Erickson <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<note type="submission">Submitted to Discrete &amp; Computational Geometry <lb/></note>
		<date>July 1, 1998 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The straight skeleton of a polygon is a variant of the medial axis, introduced by <lb/>Aichholzer et al., defined by a shrinking process in which each edge of the polygon <lb/>moves inward at a fixed rate. We construct the straight skeleton of an n-gon with r <lb/>reflex vertices in time O(n 1+&quot; + n 8=11+&quot; r 9=11+&quot; ), for any fixed &quot; &amp;gt; 0, improving the <lb/>previous best upper bound of O(nr log n). Our algorithm simulates the sequence of <lb/>collisions between edges and vertices during the shrinking process, using a technique of <lb/>Eppstein for maintaining extrema of binary functions to reduce the problem of finding <lb/>successive interactions to two dynamic range query problems: (1) maintain a changing <lb/>set of triangles in IR 3 and answer queries asking which triangle would be first hit by <lb/>a query ray, and (2) maintain a changing set of rays in IR 3 and answer queries asking <lb/>for the lowest intersection of any ray with a query triangle. We also exploit a novel <lb/>characterization of the straight skeleton as a lower envelope of triangles in IR 3 . The same <lb/>time bounds apply to constructing non-self-intersecting offset curves with mitered or <lb/>beveled corners, and similar methods extend to other problems of simulating collisions <lb/>and other pairwise interactions among sets of moving objects. <lb/></div>
		<note type="reference">An extended abstract of this paper was presented at the 14th Annual ACM Symposium on Computational <lb/>Geometry [29]. </note>
		<note type="other">See http://www:cs:duke:edu/ ~ jeffe/pubs/cycles:html for the most recent version of this paper. <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Information and Computer Science, University of California,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Irvine, CA 92697, USA;</address>
		<email>epp-stein@ics.uci.edu;</email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www:ics:uci:edu/ ~ eppstein.</ptr>
		<note type="other">Research partially supported by NSF grant CCR-9258355 and <lb/>by matching funds from Xerox Corporation. <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>Center for Geometric Computing, Department of Computer Science, Duke University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Box 90129, Durham, <lb/>NC 27708-0129, USA;</address>
		<email>jeffe@cs.duke.edu;</email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www:cs:duke:edu/ ~ jeffe.</ptr>
		<note type="grant">Research supported by NSF grant DMS-9627683 and by U. S. Army Research Office MURI grant DAAH04-96-1-0013. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>