<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="78"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Foundation for Multi-Dimensional Databases <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Marc Gyssens <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department WNI <lb/> University of Limburg (LUC) <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium. <lb/></address>
		<email>gyssens@charlie.luc.ac.be <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Laks V.S. Lakshmanan <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/> Concordia University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Montreal, Quebec H3G 1M8, Canada <lb/></address>
		<email>laks@cs.concordia.ca <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We present a multi-dimensional database model, <lb/>which we believe can serve as a conceptual model <lb/>for On-Line Analytical Processing (OLAP)-based <lb/>applications. Apart from providing the functionalities necessary for OLAP-based applications, the <lb/>main feature of the model we propose is a clear <lb/>separation between structural aspects and the contents. This separation of concerns allows us to define data manipulation languages in a reasonably <lb/>simple, transparent way. In particular, we show <lb/>that the data cube operator can be expressed easily. Concretely, we define an algebra and a calculus <lb/>and show them to be equivalent. We conclude by <lb/>comparing our approach to related work. <lb/>The conceptual multi-dimensional database model <lb/>developed here is orthogonal to its implementa <lb/>tion, which is not a subject of the present paper. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>