<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="406"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Concurrency and Recovery in Generalized Search Trees <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Marcel Kornacker <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>U. C. Berkeley <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/ <lb/> marcel <lb/></ptr>
		<email>marcel@cs.berkeley.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>C. Mohan <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>IBM Research Division <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.almaden.ibm.com/ <lb/> cs/people/mohan <lb/></ptr>
		<email>mohan@almaden.ibm.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Joseph M. Hellerstein <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>U. C. Berkeley <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/ <lb/> jmh <lb/></ptr>
		<email>jmh@cs.berkeley.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper presents general algorithms for concurrency control in <lb/>tree-based access methods as well as a recovery protocol and a <lb/>mechanism for ensuring repeatable read. The algorithms are developed in the context of the Generalized Search Tree (GiST) data <lb/>structure, an index structure supporting an extensible set of queries <lb/>and data types. Although developed in a GiST context, the algorithms are generally applicable to many tree-based access methods. <lb/>The concurrency control protocol is based on an extension of the <lb/>link technique originally developed for B-trees, and completely <lb/>avoids holding node locks during I/Os. Repeatable read isolation is <lb/>achieved with a novel combination of predicate locks and two-phase <lb/>locking of data records. To our knowledge, this is the first time that <lb/>isolation issues have been addressed outside the context of B-trees. <lb/>A discussion of the fundamental structural differences between B-trees and more general tree structures like GiSTs explains why the <lb/>algorithms developed here deviate from their B-tree counterparts. <lb/>An implementation of GiSTs emulating B-trees in DB2/Common <lb/>Server is underway. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>