<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="817"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Capacity, Mutual Information, and Coding <lb/>for Finite-State Markov Channels <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Andrea J. Goldsmith, Member, IEEE and Pravin P. Varaiya, Fellow, IEEE <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The Finite-State Markov Channel (FSMC) is a discrete-time varying channel whose variation is determined by a finite-state Markov process. These channels have memory due to the <lb/>Markov channel variation. We obtain the FSMC capacity as a function of the conditional channel <lb/>state probability. We also show that for i.i.d. channel inputs, this conditional probability converges <lb/>weakly, and the channel&apos;s mutual information is then a closed-form continuous function of the input <lb/>distribution. <lb/>We next consider coding for FSMCs. In general, the complexity of maximum-likelihood <lb/>decoding grows exponentially with the channel memory length. Therefore, in practice, interleaving <lb/>and memoryless channel codes are used. This technique results in some performance loss relative <lb/>to the inherent capacity of channels with memory. We propose a maximum-likelihood decision-feedback decoder with complexity that is independent of the channel memory. We calculate the <lb/>capacity and cutoff rate of our technique, and show that it preserves the capacity of certain FSMCs. <lb/>We also compare the performance of the decision-feedback decoder with that of interleaving and <lb/>memoryless channel coding on a fading channel with 4PSK modulation. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Index Terms: Finite-State Markov Channels, Capacity, Mutual Information, Decision-Feedback <lb/>Maximum-Likelihood Decoding. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">Work supported in part by an IBM graduate fellowship, and in part by the PATH program, Institute of Transportation Studies, University of California, Berkeley. <lb/>A. Goldsmith is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA <lb/>91125. <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">P. Varaiya is with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of California, <lb/>Berkeley, CA 94720. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>