<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="598"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Unifying Two-View and Three-View Geometry <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>SHAI AVIDAN AMNON SHASHUA <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Institute of Computer Science, <lb/> The Hebrew University, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Jerusalem 91904, Israel <lb/></address>
		<email>avidan@cs.huji.ac.il <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. The core of multiple-view geometry is governed by the fundamental matrix and the trilinear <lb/>tensor. In this paper we unify both representations by first re-deriving the fundamental matrix as a rank <lb/>deficient tensor, and secondly by deriving a unified set of operators that are transparent to the number of <lb/>views. As a result, we show that the basic building block of the geometry of multiple views is the trilinear <lb/>tensor of three views and that this tensor specializes to the fundamental matrix (in it&apos;s tensor form) in <lb/>the case of two views. The properties of the tensor (geometric interpretation, contraction properties, <lb/>etc.) are independent of the number of views (two or three). As a byproduct, every two-view algorithm <lb/>can be considered as a degenerate three-view algorithm and three-view algorithms can work with either <lb/>two or three images, all using one standard set of tensor operations. To highlight the usefulness of this <lb/>paradigm we provide two practical applications. First we present a novel view synthesis algorithm that <lb/>starts with the fundamental matrix (in its tensor form) and seamlessly move to the general trilinear <lb/>tensor, all using one set of tensor operations. The second application is a camera stabilization algorithm, <lb/>originally introduced for three views, now working with two views without modification. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>