<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="637"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">An Evolutionary Approach to <lb/>Combinatorial Optimization Problems <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sami Khuri <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science <lb/>San Jose State University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>One Washington Square <lb/>San Jose, CA 95192-0103, U.S.A. <lb/></address>
		<email>khuri@sjsumcs.sjsu.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Thomas Back and Jorg Heitkotter <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Dortmund <lb/> Systems Analysis Research Group, LSXI <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>D-44221 Dortmund, Germany <lb/></address>
		<email>fbaeck,jokeg@ls11.informatik.uni-dortmund.de <lb/></email>
		<note type="copyright">Copyright c 1993 ACM Press. All rights reserved. <lb/></note>
		<note type="reference">To appear in the proceedings of CSC&apos;94 <lb/>Phoenix Arizona, March 8-10, 1994. <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract: The paper reports on the application of genetic <lb/>algorithms, probabilistic search algorithms based on the <lb/>model of organic evolution, to NP-complete combinatorial <lb/>optimization problems. In particular, the subset sum, maximum cut, and minimum tardy task problems are considered. <lb/>Except for the fitness function, no problem-specific changes <lb/>of the genetic algorithm are required in order to achieve results of high quality even for the problem instances of size <lb/>100 used in the paper. For constrained problems, such as the <lb/>subset sum and the minimum tardy task, the constraints are <lb/>taken into account by incorporating a graded penalty term <lb/>into the fitness function. Even for large instances of these <lb/>highly multimodal optimization problems, an iterated application of the genetic algorithm is observed to find the global <lb/>optimum within a number of runs. As the genetic algorithm <lb/>samples only a tiny fraction of the search space, these results <lb/>are quite encouraging. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>