<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="460"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Adaptive Markov Chain Monte Carlo through <lb/>Regeneration <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Walter R. Gilks <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Medical Research Council <lb/>Biostatistics Unit <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, CB2 2SR, UK. <lb/></address>
		<byline><docAuthor>Gareth O. Roberts <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Statistical Laboratory <lb/>University of Cambridge <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, CB2 1SB, UK. <lb/></address>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sujit K. Sahu <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Mathematics <lb/>University of Wales, Cardiff <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cardiff, CF2 4YH, UK. <lb/></address>
		<date>January 26, 1998 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Summary <lb/>Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is used for evaluating expectations of functions of interest <lb/>under a target distribution . This is done by calculating averages over the sample path of a <lb/>Markov chain having as its stationary distribution. For computational efficiency, the Markov <lb/>chain should be rapidly mixing. This can sometimes be achieved only by careful design of the <lb/>transition kernel of the chain, on the basis of a detailed preliminary exploratory analysis of . An <lb/>alternative approach might be to allow the transition kernel to adapt whenever new features of <lb/>are encountered during the MCMC run. However, if such adaptation occurs infinitely often, the <lb/>stationary distribution of the chain may be disturbed. We describe a framework, based on the <lb/>concept of Markov chain regeneration, which allows adaptation to occur infinitely often, but which <lb/>does not disturb the stationary distribution of the chain or the consistency of sample-path averages. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key Words: Adaptive method; Bayesian inference; Gibbs sampling; Markov chain Monte Carlo; <lb/></keywords>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>