<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="712"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Dynamic Resource Management for Continuous <lb/>Media Traffic over ATM Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Rose P. Tsang 1 , Paisal Keattithananant <lb/>Taisheng Chang 3 , Jenwei Hsieh 3 , David H.C. Du 2 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Distributed Multimedia Center 3 <lb/>Computer Science Department <lb/>University of Minnesota <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Minneapolis, MN 55455 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Real-time continuous media traffic, such as digital video and audio, is expected <lb/>to comprise a large percentage of the network load on future high speed packet <lb/>switch networks such as ATM. A major feature which distinguishes high speed <lb/>networks from traditional slower speed networks is the large amount of data the <lb/>network must manage. For efficient network usage, traffic control mechanisms are <lb/>essential. Currently, most mechanisms for traffic control (such as flow control) <lb/>have centered on the support of Available Bit Rate (ABR), i.e., non real-time, <lb/>traffic. With regard to ATM, for ABR traffic, two major types of schemes which <lb/>have been proposed are rate-control and credit-control schemes. Neither of these <lb/>schemes are directly applicable to Real-time Variable Bit Rate (VBR) traffic such <lb/>as continuous media traffic. Traffic control for continuous media traffic is an inherently difficult problem due to the time-sensitive nature of the traffic and its <lb/>unpredictable burstiness. In this study, we present a scheme which controls traffic by dynamically allocating/de-allocating resources among competing VCs based <lb/>upon their real-time requirements. This scheme incorporates a form of rate-control, <lb/>real-time burst-level scheduling and link-link flow control. We show analytically potential performance improvements of our rate-control scheme and present a scheme <lb/>for buffer dimensioning. We also present simulation results of our schemes and discuss the tradeoffs inherent in maintaining high network utilization and statistically <lb/>guaranteeing many users&apos; Quality of Service. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), dynamic traffic control, resource man <lb/>agement, rate control, Real-time Variable Bit Rate traffic, continuous media traffic. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">1 This work is supported in part by U S WEST Communications.</note>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>