<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="507"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Computational Intelligence, Volume 12, Number 3, 1996 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">LOCALIZED TEMPORAL REASONING USING SUBGOALS <lb/>AND ABSTRACT EVENTS <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Shieu-Hong Lin, Thomas Dean 1 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science, Brown University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Providence, RI 02912 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">We are concerned with temporal reasoning problems where there is uncertainty about the order <lb/>in which events occur. The task of temporal reasoning is to derive an event sequence consistent with <lb/>a given set of ordering constraints to achieve a goal. Previous research shows that the associated <lb/>decision problems are hard even for very restricted cases. In this paper, we investigate locality in <lb/>event ordering and causal dependencies. We present a localized temporal reasoning algorithm that <lb/>uses subgoals and abstract events to exploit locality. The computational efficiency of our algorithm <lb/>for a problem instance is quantified by the inherent locality in the instance. We theoretically <lb/>demonstrate the substantial improvement in performance gained by exploiting locality. This work <lb/>provides a solid evidence of the usefulness of localized reasoning in exploiting locality. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words: Dynamical Systems, Temporal Reasoning, Planning, Locality, Localized Reasoning, Subgoals, Abstract Events <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>