<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="63"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<idno>Technical Report CSRP-98-13 <lb/></idno>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computer Science,  The University of Birmingham <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">GP-Music: An Interactive Genetic Programming System for <lb/>Music Generation with Automated Fitness Raters <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Brad Johanson <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Rains Apt. 9A <lb/>704 Campus Dr. <lb/>Stanford, CA. 94305 <lb/></address>
		<email>bjohanso@stanford.edu <lb/></email>
		<note type="phone">650-497-7543 <lb/></note>
		<byline><docAuthor>Riccardo Poli <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Birmingham <lb/> School of Computer Science <lb/> The University of Birmingham <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Birmingham B15 2TT <lb/></address>
		<email>R.Poli@cs.bham.ac.uk <lb/></email>
		<note type="phone">+44-121-414-3739 <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>In this paper we present the GP-Music System, an interactive system which allows users to evolve short musical sequences <lb/>using interactive genetic programming, and its extensions aimed at making the system fully automated. The basic GP-system works by using a genetic programming algorithm, a small set of functions for creating musical sequences, and a user <lb/>interface which allows the user to rate individual sequences. With this user interactive technique it was possible to generate <lb/>pleasant tunes over runs of 20 individuals over 10 generations. As the user is the bottleneck in interactive systems, the <lb/>system takes rating data from a users run and uses it to train a neural network based automatic rater, or auto rater, which <lb/>can replace the user in bigger runs. Using this auto rater we were able to make runs of up to 50 generations with 500 <lb/>individuals per generation. The best of run pieces generated by the auto raters were pleasant but were not, in general, as <lb/>nice as those generated in user interactive runs. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>