<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="814"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">The Common Randomness Capacity of a <lb/>Pair of Independent Discrete Memoryless <lb/>Channels <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>S. Venkatesan V. Anantharam zx <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<date>13 August 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We study the following problem: two agents Alice and Bob are connected to each other by independent discrete memoryless channels. They <lb/>wish to generate common randomness by communicating interactively over <lb/>the two channels. Assuming that Alice and Bob are allowed access to <lb/>independent external random sources at rates (in bits per step of communication) of H A and H B , respectively, we show that they can generate common randomness at a rate of max f min [H A + H(W jQ); I(P ; V )] + <lb/>min [H B + H(V jP ); I(Q; W )] g bits per step. Here, V is the channel from <lb/>Alice to Bob, and W is the channel from Bob to Alice. The maximum <lb/>is over all probability distributions P and Q on the input alphabets of V <lb/>and W respectively. We also prove a strong converse which establishes the <lb/>above rate as the highest attainable in this situation. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Common randomness capacity, generating randomness from <lb/>noise, interactive communication. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">Research supported by NSF IRI 9005849, IRI 9310670, NCR 9422513, and the AT&amp;T <lb/>Foundation. <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>Cornell University and U.C. Berkeley. <lb/>Univ. of California, Berkeley. <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<note type="other">x Address all correspondence to the second author:</note>
		<address>570 Cory Hall, Dept. of EECS, U.C. <lb/>Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720. <lb/></address>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>