<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="326"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Multi-Agent Referral System for Matchmaking <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Leonard N. Foner <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>MIT Media Lab <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>20 Ames St, E15-305 <lb/>Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<note type="phone">617/253-9601 <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>Many important and useful applications for software agents <lb/>require multiple agents on a network that communicate with <lb/>each other. Such agents must find each other and perform a <lb/>useful joint computation without having to know about every <lb/>other such agent on the network. This paper describes a <lb/>matchmaker <lb/>system, designed to find people with similar interests and introduce them to each other. The matchmaker is <lb/>designed to introduce <lb/>everyone <lb/>, unlike conventional Internet <lb/>media which only allow those who take the time to <lb/>speak <lb/>public to be known. <lb/>The paper details how the agents that make it up the match-making system can function in a decentralized fashion, yet <lb/>can group themselves into clusters which reflect their users <lb/>interests; these clusters are then used to make introductions or <lb/>allow users to send messages to others who share their inter <lb/>ests. The algorithm uses <lb/>referrals <lb/>from one agent to another <lb/>in the same fashion that word-of-mouth is used when people <lb/>are looking for an expert. A prototype of the system has been <lb/>implemented, and results of its use are presented. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>KEYWORDS: <lb/>agents, collaborative filtering, CSCW, joint <lb/>computation, ecology of computation, user modeling, intelli <lb/>gent systems, information retrieval, distributed AI, Internet. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>