<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1037"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Encoding models for scholarly literature <lb/>  Does the TEI have a word to say? <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Martin Holmes,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Humanities Computing and Media Centre, University of Victoria <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Laurent Romary,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>INRIA-Gemo &amp; Humboldt Universität Berlin <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract: In this chapter, we examine the issue of digital formats for document encoding, <lb/> archiving and publishing, through the specific example of &quot;born-digital&quot; scholarly journal <lb/> articles. This small area of electronic publishing represents a microcosm of the state of <lb/> the art, and provides a good basis for this discussion. We will begin by looking at the <lb/> traditional workflow of journal editing and publication, and how these practices have <lb/> made the transition into the online domain. We will examine the range of different file <lb/> formats in which electronic articles are currently stored and published. We will argue <lb/> strongly that, despite the prevalence of binary and proprietary formats such as PDF and <lb/> MS Word, XML is a far superior encoding choice for journal articles. Next, we look at <lb/> the range of XML document structures (DTDs, Schemas) which are in common use for <lb/> encoding journal articles, and consider some of their strengths and weaknesses. We will <lb/> suggest that, despite the existence of specialized schemas intended specifically for journal <lb/> articles (such as NLM), and more broadly-used publication-oriented schemas such as <lb/> DocBook, there are strong arguments in favour of developing a subset or customization <lb/> of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) schema for the purpose of journal-article encoding; <lb/> TEI is already in use in a number of journal publication projects, and the scale and <lb/> precision of the TEI tagset makes it particularly appropriate for encoding scholarly <lb/> articles. We will outline the document structure of a TEI-encoded journal article, and look <lb/> in detail at suggested markup patterns for specific features of journal articles. Next, we <lb/> will look briefly at how XML-based publication systems work, and what advantages they <lb/> bring over electronic publication methods based on other digital formats. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>