<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="277"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<byline><affiliation>M.I.T Media Laboratory Perceptual Computing Section </affiliation></byline><idno> Technical Report No. 307 <lb/></idno>
		<note type="reference">Appears: International Conference on Computer Vision &apos;95, Cambridge, MA, June 20-23, 1995 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Facial Expression Recognition using a Dynamic Model and Motion Energy <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Irfan A. Essa and Alex P. Pentland <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Perceptual Computing Group, The Media Laboratory, <lb/>Massachusetts Institute of Technology <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Cambridge, MA 02139, U.S.A. <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Previous efforts at facial expression recognition have <lb/>been based on the Facial Action Coding System (FACS), a <lb/>representation developed in order to allow human psychologists to code expression from static facial mugshots. In <lb/>this paper we develop new, more accurate representations <lb/>for facial expression by building a video database of facial <lb/>expressions and then probabilistically characterizing the <lb/>facial muscle activation associated with each expression <lb/>using a detailed physical model of the skin and muscles. <lb/>This produces a muscle-based representation of facial motion, which is then used to recognize facial expressions in <lb/>two different ways. The first method uses the physics-based <lb/>model directly, by recognizing expressions through comparison of estimated muscle activations. The second method <lb/>uses the physics-based model to generate spatio-temporal <lb/>motion-energy templates of the whole face for each different <lb/>expression. These simple, biologically-plausible motion <lb/>energy templates are then used for recognition. Both <lb/>methods show substantially greater accuracy at expression <lb/>recognition than has been previously achieved. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>