<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="754"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 6 (1997) 35-85 Submitted 7/96; published 1/97 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">SCREEN: Learning a Flat Syntactic and Semantic Spoken <lb/>Language Analysis Using Artificial Neural Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Stefan Wermter</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>wermter@informatik.uni-hamburg.de <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Volker Weber</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>weber@informatik.uni-hamburg.de <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Hamburg <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>22527 Hamburg, Germany <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Previous approaches of analyzing spontaneously spoken language often have been based <lb/>on encoding syntactic and semantic knowledge manually and symbolically. While there <lb/>has been some progress using statistical or connectionist language models, many current <lb/>spoken-language systems still use a relatively brittle, hand-coded symbolic grammar or <lb/>symbolic semantic component. <lb/>In contrast, we describe a so-called screening approach for learning robust processing <lb/>of spontaneously spoken language. A screening approach is a flat analysis which uses shallow sequences of category representations for analyzing an utterance at various syntactic, <lb/>semantic and dialog levels. Rather than using a deeply structured symbolic analysis, we <lb/>use a flat connectionist analysis. This screening approach aims at supporting speech and <lb/>language processing by using (1) data-driven learning and (2) robustness of connectionist <lb/>networks. In order to test this approach, we have developed the screen system which is <lb/>based on this new robust, learned and flat analysis. <lb/>In this paper, we focus on a detailed description of screen&apos;s architecture, the flat <lb/>syntactic and semantic analysis, the interaction with a speech recognizer, and a detailed <lb/>evaluation analysis of the robustness under the influence of noisy or incomplete input. <lb/>The main result of this paper is that flat representations allow more robust processing of <lb/>spontaneous spoken language than deeply structured representations. In particular, we <lb/>show how the fault-tolerance and learning capability of connectionist networks can support <lb/>a flat analysis for providing more robust spoken-language processing within an overall <lb/>hybrid symbolic/connectionist framework. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>