<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="193"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Dynamic Generation and Refinement of Concept Hierarchies for <lb/>Knowledge Discovery in Databases <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jiawei Han and Yongjian Fu <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computing Science <lb/>Simon Fraser University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6 <lb/></address>
		<email>fhan, yongjiang@cs.sfu.ca <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Concept hierarchies organize data and concepts in hierarchical forms or in certain partial order, which <lb/>helps expressing knowledge and data relationships in databases in concise, high level terms, and thus, plays <lb/>an important role in knowledge discovery processes. Concept hierarchies could be provided by knowledge <lb/>engineers, domain experts or users, or embedded in some data relations. However, it is sometimes desirable to automatically generate some concept hierarchies or adjust some given hierarchies for particular <lb/>learning tasks. In this paper, the issues of dynamic generation and refinement of concept hierarchies are <lb/>studied. The study leads to some algorithms for automatic generation of concept hierarchies for numerical attributes based on data distributions and for dynamic refinement of a given or generated concept <lb/>hierarchy based on a learning request, the relevant set of data and database statistics. These algorithms <lb/>have been implemented in the DBLearn knowledge discovery system and tested against large relational <lb/>databases. The experimental results show that the algorithms are efficient and effective for knowledge <lb/>discovery in large databases. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Knowledge discovery in large databases, discovery methods, KDD system implementation, al <lb/>gorithms, dynamic generation and refinement of concept hierarchies. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>