<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="87"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Coir: A Thread-Model for Supporting Task- and Data- Parallelism <lb/>in Object-Oriented Parallel Languages <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Neelakantan Sundaresan Dennis Gannon <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>nsundare@cs.indiana.edu </email> <email>gannon@cs.indiana.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>215 Lindley Hall <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>Indiana University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Bloomington, IN 47405 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Data- and task-parallelism are two important parallel programming models. Object-oriented paradigm <lb/>in parallelism provides a good way of abstracting out various aspects of computations and computing resources. Using an object-oriented language like C++, one can compose data and control representations <lb/>into a single active object. <lb/>We propose a thread model of parallelism that addresses both data and task parallelism. Computation <lb/>and communication can be overlapped by suspending a thread of computation which is waiting for an <lb/>event and running an eligible thread of computation in its place. Threads naturally subsume task-parallelism. Threads are encapsulated into thread objects may be grouped into rope objects [22, 20], that <lb/>span the parallel machine domain, for collective computation and communication. Thus data-parallelism <lb/>can be supported. Since rope objects are parallel objects, they can be customized, interestingly, in a <lb/>serial or a parallel manner. Spatial transparency of objects is achieved by global pointer templates. <lb/>We present results from a prototype system running on the SGI Challenge and the Intel Paragon. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>keywords: task-parallelism, data-parallelism, thread, rope, object-oriented paradigm <lb/></keywords>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>