<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="289"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
        <titlePart type="main">Extended Capabilities for <lb/>Visual Cryptography <lb/></titlePart></docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Giuseppe Ateniese 1 , Carlo Blundo 2 , Alfredo De Santis 2 , and Douglas R. Stinson 3 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1 Dipartimento di Informatica e Scienze dell&apos;Informazione, <lb/>Universita di Genova,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>via Dodecaneso 35, 16146 Genova, Italy <lb/></address>
		<email>E-mail: ateniese@disi.unige.it <lb/></email>
		<ptr type="web">URL: http://www.disi.unige.it/phd/ateniese/ateniese.html <lb/></ptr>
		<byline><affiliation>2 Dipartimento di Informatica ed Applicazioni, <lb/>Universita di Salerno,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>84081 Baronissi (SA), Italy <lb/></address>
		<email>E-mail: {fcarblu,adsg}@dia.unisa.it <lb/></email>
		<ptr type="web">URL: http://www.unisa.it/{~carblu, ~adsg} <lb/></ptr>
		<byline><affiliation>3 Department of Combinatorics and Optimization <lb/>University of Waterloo,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Waterloo Ontario, N2L 3G1, Canada <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>An extended visual cryptography scheme, EVCS for short, for an access structure <lb/>( Qual ; Forb ) on a set of n participants, is a technique to encode n images in such a <lb/>way that when we stack together the transparencies associated to participants in any <lb/>set X 2 Qual we get the secret message with no trace of the original images, but any <lb/>X 2 Forb has no information on the shared image. Moreover, after the original images <lb/>are encoded they are still meaningful, that is, any user will recognize the image on his <lb/>transparency. <lb/>The main contributions of this paper are the following: <lb/>* A trade-off between the contrast of the reconstructed image and the contrast of the <lb/>image on each transparency for (k; k)-threshold EVCS (in a (k; k)-threshold EVCS <lb/>the image is visible if and only if k transparencies are stacked together). This yields <lb/>a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of (k; k)-threshold EVCS for <lb/>the values of such contrasts. In case a scheme exists we explicitly construct it. <lb/>* A general technique to implement extended visual cryptography schemes, which <lb/>uses hypergraph colourings. This technique yields (k; k)-threshold EVCS which <lb/>are optimal with respect to the pixel expansion. Finally, we discuss some applications of this technique to various interesting classes of access structures by using <lb/>relevant results from the theory of hypergraph colourings. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Visual Cryptography, Secret Sharing Schemes. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>