<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1127"/>  
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front>    
		<note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">20 February 2010<lb/></date>
        
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Multipeak  ferromagnetic resonance behaviour tailored by<lb/> magnetoelastic coupling in FeSiB/CoNi layered microwires<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		
		<byline><docAuthor>J. Torrejón, G. A. Badini-Confalonieri and M. Vázquez <lb/> </docAuthor></byline>
		
		<byline><affiliation>Institute for Materials Science, CSIC. </affiliation></byline> 
		<address> 28049 Madrid. Spain <lb/></address>  
		
		<email>E-mail: jtorrejon@icmm.csic.es <lb/></email>

		<phone>phone: 0034-913349000.</phone>
		
		<note type="title">Multipeak  FMR_FeSiB/CoNi microwires<lb/></note>
		
		<note type="page">Page 2 of 15<lb/></note>
		
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.-<lb/> The aim of this work is to report on the influence of the presence of a<lb/> magnetically hard layer with large thickness in the ferromagnetic resonance behaviour<lb/> of soft/hard biphase microwires. Such microwires consist of FeSiB soft nucleus,<lb/> intermediate glass layer and CoNi hard outer shell, and are prepared by combined<lb/> quenching and drawing technique with electrochemical deposition. The unusual FMR<lb/> response observed for this biphase system is characterised by the presence of a<lb/>  multipeak absorption spectrum that depends on the static field and on the thickness of<lb/> the hard phase by means of magnetoelastic coupling. For thick enough CoNi layer, the<lb/> internal stresses induced in the nucleus during electroplating process are very strong,<lb/> giving rise to three electromagnetic absorptions: one at low frequency related to CoNi<lb/>  shell and two more at higher frequencies corresponding to the FeSiB nucleus which are<lb/> ascribed to two well-defined magnetization regions with different magnetic anisotropy. <lb/></div>  	
		
		<keywords type="pacs"> PACS: 75.60.Ch,  75.60.Ej, 75.60.JkNp<lb/></keywords>
		
		<keywords>KeyWords: Multipeak Ferromagnetic Resonance; Biphase magnetic microwires;<lb/> Magnetoelastic coupling.<lb/></keywords>
		
		<note type="title">Multipeak  FMR_FeSiB/CoNi microwires<lb/></note>
		
		<note type="page">Page 3 of 15<lb/></note>
		
		<introduction>Introduction:  on the FMR of magnetic microwires.- <lb/></introduction>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              
