<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="453"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">THE LOAD, CAPACITY AND AVAILABILITY OF QUORUM <lb/>SYSTEMS <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>MONI NAOR AND AVISHAI WOOL <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<date>January 22, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. <lb/>A quorum system is a collection of sets (quorums) every two of which intersect. Quorum systems <lb/>have been used for many applications in the area of distributed systems, including mutual exclusion, <lb/>data replication and dissemination of information <lb/>Given a strategy to pick quorums, the load L(S) is the minimal access probability of the busiest <lb/>element, minimizing over the strategies. The capacity Cap(S) is the highest quorum accesses rate <lb/>that S can handle, so Cap(S) = 1=L(S). <lb/>The availability of a quorum system S is the probability that at least one quorum survives, <lb/>assuming that each element fails independently with probability p. A tradeoff between L(S) and the <lb/>availability of S is shown. <lb/>We present four novel constructions of quorum system, all featuring optimal or near optimal <lb/>load, and high availability. The best construction, based on paths in a grid, has a load of O(1= <lb/>p <lb/>and a failure probability of exp(( <lb/>p <lb/>n)) when the elements fail with probability p &amp;lt; 1 <lb/>2 . Moreover, <lb/>even in the presence of faults, with exponentially high probability the load of this system is still <lb/>O(1= <lb/>n). The analysis of this scheme is based on Percolation Theory. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words. quorum systems, load, fault tolerance, distributed computing, percolation theory, <lb/>linear programming. <lb/></keywords>
		<keywords type="classes">AMS subject classifications. 60K35, 62N05, 68M10, 68Q22, 68R05, 90A28, 90C05. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction.</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>