<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="161"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Team Learning of Formal Languages <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Sanjay Jain <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Info. Systems &amp; Computer Science <lb/>National University of Singapore <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Singapore 0511, Republic of Singapore <lb/></address>
		<email>sanjay@iscs.nus.sg <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Arun Sharma <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>School of Computer Science and Engineering <lb/>The University of New South Wales <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia <lb/></address>
		<email>arun@cse.unsw.edu.au <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A team of learning machines is a multiset of <lb/>learning machines. A team is said to successfully learn a concept just in case each member <lb/>of some nonempty subset, of predetermined <lb/>size, of the team learns the concept. <lb/>Team learning of computer programs for <lb/>computable functions from their graphs has <lb/>been studied extensively. However, team <lb/>learning of languages turns out to be a <lb/>more suitable theoretical model for studying <lb/>computational limits on multi-agent machine <lb/>learning. The main reason for this is that <lb/>language learning can model both learning <lb/>from positive data and learning from positive <lb/>and negative data, whereas function learning <lb/>models only learning from positive and negative data. <lb/>Some theoretical results about learnability of <lb/>formal languages by teams of algorithmic machines are surveyed. Some new results about <lb/>restricted classes of languages are presented. <lb/>These results are mainly about two issues: redundancy and aggregation. The issue of redundancy deals with the impact of increasing <lb/>the size of a team and increasing the number <lb/>of machines required to be successful. The <lb/>issue of aggregation deals with conditions under which a team may be replaced by a single <lb/>machine without any loss in learning ability. <lb/>Scenarios which can be modeled by team <lb/>learning are also presented. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>