<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="787"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Techniques for Developing and Measuring <lb/>High-Performance Web Servers over ATM Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>James C. Hu , Sumedh Mungee, Douglas C. Schmidt <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<email>fjxh,sumedh,schmidtg@cs.wustl.edu <lb/></email>
		<note type="phone">TEL: (314) 935-4215 FAX: (314) 935-7302 <lb/></note>
		<address>Campus Box 1045/Bryan 509 <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>Washington University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>One Brookings Drive <lb/>St. Louis, MO 63130, USA <lb/></address>
		<note type="submission">This paper has been submitted to the INFOCOM &apos;98 conference. <lb/></note>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>High-performance Web servers are essential to meet the growing demands of the Internet and large-scale intranets. Satisfying these demands requires a thorough understanding of key <lb/>factors affecting Web server performance. This paper presents <lb/>empirical analysis illustrating how dynamic and static adaptivity can enhance Web server performance. Two research <lb/>contributions support this conclusion. <lb/>First, the paper presents results from a comprehensive empirical study of Web servers (such as Apache, Netscape Enterprise, PHTTPD, Zeus, and JAWS) over high-speed ATM networks. This study illustrates their relative performance and <lb/>precisely pinpoints the server design choices that cause performance bottlenecks. We found that once network and disk <lb/>I/O overheads are reduced to negligible constant factors, the <lb/>main determinants of Web server performance are its protocol processing path and concurrency strategy. Moreover, no <lb/>single strategy performs optimally for all load conditions and <lb/>traffic types. <lb/>Second, we describe the design techniques and optimizations used to develop JAWS, our high-performance, adaptive <lb/>Web server. JAWS is an object-oriented Web server that was <lb/>explicitly designed to alleviate the performance bottlenecks <lb/>we identified in existing Web servers. It consistently outperforms all other Web servers over ATM networks. The performance optimizations used in JAWS include adaptive pre-spawned threading, fixed headers, cached date processing, <lb/>and file caching. In addition, JAWS uses a novel software architecture that substantially improves its portability and flex <lb/>This work was funded in part by NSF grant NCR-9628218, Object Technologies International, Eastman Kodak, and Siemens MED. <lb/>ibility, relative to other Web servers. Our empirical results <lb/>illustrate that highly efficient communication software is not <lb/>antithetical to highly flexible software. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>