<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="694"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Composite Model Checking with Type Specific <lb/>Symbolic Encodings * <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Tevfik Bultan Richard Gerber <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>University of Maryland,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742, USA <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We present a new symbolic model checking technique, which analyzes temporal properties in multi-typed transition systems. Specifically, the method uses multiple type-specific data encodings to represent <lb/>system states, and it carries out fixpoint computations via the corresponding type-specific symbolic <lb/>operations. In essence, different symbolic encodings are unified into one composite model checker. Any <lb/>type-specific language can be included in this framework provided that the language is closed under <lb/>Boolean connectives, propositions can be checked for satisfiability, and relational images can be computed. <lb/>Our technique relies on conjunctive partitioning of transition relations of atomic events based on variable <lb/>types involved, which allows independent computation of one-step pre- and post-conditions for each <lb/>variable type. <lb/>In this paper we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a nontrivial data-transfer protocol, <lb/>which contains a mixture of integer and Boolean-valued variables. The protocol operates over an unreliable channel that can lose, duplicate or reorder messages. Moreover, the protocol&apos;s send and receive <lb/>window sizes are not specified in advance; rather, they are represented as symbolic constants. The resulting system was automatically verified using our composite model checking approach, in concert with <lb/>a conservative approximation technique. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This research is supported in part by ONR grant N00014-94-10228 and NSF CCR-9619808. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>