<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1095"/> 
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en"> 
	<front> 
		<note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">12 December 2009<lb/></date>

		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Measuring dislocation densities in nonpolar  a-plane  GaN films using atomic force<lb/>microscopy<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle> 
		 
		<byline><docAuthor>by<lb/> M. A. Moram  a)  , C. F. Johnston, M. J. Kappers, C. J. Humphreys<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		 
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. Materials Science &amp; Metallurgy, University of Cambridge, </affiliation></byline> 
		
		<address>Pembroke St.,<lb/> Cambridge, CB2 3QZ, UK<lb/></address>
		
		<div type="abstract">Dislocation densities in nonpolar GaN films were determined using<lb/> microscopy (AFM) by counting pits in the GaN surface revealed by a SiH  4  surface<lb/> treatment. This treatment increased the number of pits detected by a factor of 2<lb/> compared to the untreated surface. AFM and transmission electron microscopy<lb/> analysis of a series of SiH  4  -treated calibration samples indicated that surface pit and<lb/> dislocation densities corresponded well up to a dislocation density of ~6 x 10  9  cm  -2  ,<lb/> above which surface pit overlap meant that dislocation densities determined by AFM<lb/> were underestimated. For all samples with dislocations densities below 6 x 10  9  cm  -2  ,<lb/>spatial analysis of the surface pit positions showed that dislocations typically<lb/> accumulated in bands at island coalescence boundaries.<lb/></div>
		
		<keywords>Keywords: A1. Atomic force microscopy, A1. Line defects, A1. Planar defects, A3.<lb/> Metalorganic vapour phase epitaxy, B1. Nitrides, B2. Semiconducting III-V materials<lb/></keywords>
		
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS codes: 61.72.Ff, 61.72.Lk, 61.72.Nn, 61.72.uj, 68.37.Ps, 81.05.Ea<lb/></keywords>
		
		<email>a)  Email: mam65@cam.ac.uk, </email> <phone>Tel: +44 1223 334375<lb/></phone>
		
    </front>
</text>
</tei>                              