<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1072"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
		<date type="submission">12 February 2010<lb/></date>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">   Prospects  for Strangeness Production in<lb/>  p  −  p  Collisions at LHC<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>I.  Kraus   1   , J. Cleymans   1,2   , H. Oeschler   1   and K. Redlich   3,4,5<lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1   Institut  für Kernphysik, Darmstadt University of Technology,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>D-64289 Darmstadt,<lb/>Germany<lb/></address>    
		<byline><affiliation>2   UCT-CERN Research Centre and Department of Physics, University of Cape Town,<lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Rondebosch 7701, South Africa<lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>3   Institute of Theoretical Physics, University of Wrocc law, </affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pl-45204 Wroc law, Poland<lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>4   GSI Hemholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung, </affiliation></byline>
                <address>D-64291 Darmstadt, Germany<lb/></address>
                <byline><affiliation>5   Fakultät für Physik, Universität Bielefeld, </affiliation></byline>
                <address>D-33501 Bielefeld, Germany<lb/></address>
		<email>E-mail:  Ingrid.Kraus@cern.ch<lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">  Abstract.<lb/>  Prospects for strangeness production in  p−p  collisions at the Large Hadron Collider<lb/> (LHC) are discussed within the statistical model. Firstly, the system size and the<lb/> energy dependence of the model parameters are extracted from existing data and<lb/> extrapolated to LHC energy. Particular attention is paid to demonstrate that the<lb/> chemical decoupling temperature is independent of the system size. In the energy<lb/> regime investigated so far, strangeness production in  p  −  p  interactions is strongly<lb/> influenced by the canonical suppression effects. At LHC energies, this influence might<lb/> be reduced. Particle ratios with particular sensitivity to canonical effects are indicated.<lb/> Secondly, the relation between the strangeness production and the charged-particle<lb/> multiplicity in  p  −  p  interactions is investigated. In this context the multiplicity<lb/> dependence studied at Tevatron is of particular interest. There, the trend in relative<lb/> strangeness production known from centrality dependent heavy-ion collisions is not<lb/> seen in multiplicity selected  p  −  p  interactions. However, the conclusion from the<lb/> Tevatron measurements is based on rather limited data samples with low statistics and<lb/> number of observables. We argue, that there is an absolute need at LHC to measure<lb/> strangeness production in events with different multiplicities to possibly disentangle<lb/> relations and differences between particle production in  p  −  p  and heavy-ion collisions.<lb/></div>
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 12.40.Ee, 25.75.Dw<lb/></keywords>
		<keywords>Keywords:  Statistical  model, Strangeness undersaturation, Particle production<lb/></keywords>
		<note type="title">Prospects  for Strangeness Production in  p  −  p  Collisions at LHC<lb/>2<lb/></note>
		<introduction>1. Introduction<lb/></introduction>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>