<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="559"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">SUPRENUM: Perspectives and Performance <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Oliver A. McBryan <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Computer Science <lb/>University of Colorado <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Boulder, CO 80309. <lb/></address>
		<email>Email: mcbryan@cs.colorado.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>We describe our impressions of the SUPRENUM project and of its primary <lb/>supercomputer result, the Suprenum-1 prototype. We comment on the significance <lb/>of the architecture, its role among contemporary systems and its relevance to <lb/>current systems. We similarly discuss the SUPRENUM software and its impact on <lb/>distributed systems. Finally we discuss the successes and failures observed <lb/>throughout this exciting project and relate these to the organizational decisions on <lb/>which SUPRENUM was based. <lb/>As an illustration of Suprenum-1 capabilities, we describe the <lb/>implementation of a fluid dynamical benchmark on the 256 node Suprenum-1 <lb/>parallel computer. The benchmark, the Shallow Water Equations, is frequently used <lb/>as a model for both oceanographic and atmospheric circulation. We describe the <lb/>steps involved in implementing the algorithm on the Suprenum-1 and we provide <lb/>details of performance obtained. For such regular grid-based algorithms the system <lb/>delivers a very impressive fraction (25%) of its theoretical peak rate of 5 Gflops. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: SUPRENUM, MPP, MIMD, parallel, supercomputer, performance, <lb/>atmospheric, shallow water, architecture, software, message passing. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">* Research supported in part by NSF Grand Challenges Applications Group grant ASC-9217394 and by <lb/>NASA HPCC Group Grant NAG5-2218. <lb/>To appear in Parallel Computing, October 1994. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>