<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="144"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Isotach Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Paul F. Reynolds, Jr. <lb/>Craig Williams <lb/>Raymond R. Wagner, Jr. <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract We introduce a class of networks called isotach networks designed to reduce the <lb/>cost of concurrency control in asynchronous computations. Isotach networks support several <lb/>properties important to the correct execution of parallel and distributed computations: atomi-city, causal message delivery, sequential consistency, and memory coherence in systems in <lb/>which shared data can replicate and migrate. They allow processes to execute atomic actions <lb/>without locks and to pipeline memory accesses without sacrificing sequential consistency. Iso-tach networks can be implemented in a wide variety of configurations, including NUMA (nonuniform memory access) multiprocessors and distributed as well as parallel systems. Networks <lb/>that implement isotach time systems are characterized not by their topology, but by the guarantees they make about the relative order in which messages appear to be delivered. These <lb/>guarantees are expressed in logical time, not physical time. Physical time guarantees would be <lb/>prohibitively expensive, whereas logical time guarantees can be enforced cheaply, using purely <lb/>local knowledge, and yet are powerful enough to support efficient techniques for coordinating <lb/>asynchronously executing processes. Empirical and analytic studies of isotach systems show <lb/>that they outperform conventional systems under realistic workloads, in some cases by an order <lb/>of magnitude or more. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>