<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="278"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<byline><affiliation>M.I.T Media Laboratory Perceptual Computing Section</affiliation></byline> <idno> Technical Report No. 358 <lb/></idno>
		<note type="reference">Also to appear: Springer Verlag Workshops in Computing, MIRO 95, Invited Paper, Glasgow, Sep. 95 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Toward a Visual Thesaurus <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Rosalind W. Picard <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>MIT Media Laboratory,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>20 Ames St., Cambridge, MA 02139 <lb/></address>
		<email>picard@media.mit.edu,</email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.media.mit.edu/~picard/ <lb/></ptr>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A thesaurus is a book containing synonyms in a <lb/>given language; it provides similarity links when <lb/>trying to retrieve articles or stories about a particular topic. A &quot;visual thesaurus&quot; works with <lb/>pictures, not words. It aids in recognizing visually similar events, &quot;visual synonyms,&quot; including <lb/>both spatial and motion similarity. This paper <lb/>describes a method for building such a tool, and <lb/>recent research results in the MIT Media Lab <lb/>which contribute toward this goal. The heart <lb/>of the method is a learning system which gathers information by interacting with a user of a <lb/>database. The learning system is also capable of <lb/>incorporating audio and other perceptual information, ultimately constructing a representation <lb/>of common sense knowledge. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>