<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="539"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">SIGGRAPH 95, Los Angeles, August 6-11 COMPUTER GRAPHICS Proceedings, Annual Conference Series, 1995 <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Interactive Physically-Based Manipulation <lb/>of Discrete/Continuous Models <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Mikako Harada <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Architecture <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Andrew Witkin <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>David Baraff <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Robotics Institute <lb/>Carnegie Mellon University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Pittsburgh, PA 15213 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Physically-based modeling has been used in the past to support a variety of interactive modeling tasks including free-form surface design, mechanism design, constrained drawing, and interactive camera control. In these systems, the user interacts with the model <lb/>by exerting virtual forces, to which the system responds subject <lb/>to the active constraints. In the past, this kind of interaction has <lb/>been applicable only to models that are governed by continuous <lb/>parameters. In this paper we present an extension to mixed con-tinuous/discrete models, emphasizing constrained layout problems <lb/>that arise in architecture and other domains. When the object being <lb/>dragged is blocked from further motion by geometric constraints, a <lb/>local discrete search is triggered, during which transformations such <lb/>as swapping of adjacent objects may be performed. The result of the <lb/>search is a nearby state in which the target object has been moved <lb/>in the indicated direction and in which all constraints are satisfied. <lb/>The transition to this state is portrayed using simple but effective animated visual effects. Following the transition, continuous dragging <lb/>is resumed. The resulting seamless transitions between discrete and <lb/>continuous manipulation allow the user to easily explore the mixed <lb/>design space just by dragging objects. We demonstrate the method <lb/>in application to architectural floor plan design, circuit board layout, <lb/>art analysis, and page layout. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>KeywordsInteractive techniques, physically-based modeling, <lb/>grammars. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>