<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1075"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
        <note type="submission">Confidential:  not for distribution. Submitted to IOP Publishing for peer review </note>
        <date type="submission">24 February 2010<lb/></date>		
		<note type="reference">'Strangeness  in Quark Matter' Conference, Buzios, 2009<lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Strangeness  in High Multiplicity Proton-Proton<lb/> Collisions in the ALICE Experiment<lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Z L Matthews</docAuthor></byline>
		<note type="other">for the ALICE Collaboration<lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>School  of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Edgbaston,<lb/>Birmingham B15 2TT<lb/></address>    
		<email>E-mail:  zlm@hep.ph.bham.ac.uk<lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract.  The ALICE experiment at CERN is primarily focused on quark-gluon<lb/> plasma production in heavy ion (Pb-Pb) collisions. In addition, high multiplicity<lb/> events from the LHC pp programme will provide an interesting field of study. As with<lb/> A-A collisions, high multiplicity could suggest high underlying energy density of the<lb/> system, possibly exceeding that required for deconfinement. Bjorken first suggested<lb/> that deconfinement might occur in pp collisions, and evidence for this was sought by<lb/> the E-735 experiment at Fermilab but no clear signature was seen. The LHC will offer<lb/> new possibilities for examining this idea owing to the much greater multiplicity reach<lb/> available at higher energy. The ALICE experiment has powerful triggering tools and<lb/> particle identification (PID), which place it in a strong position to analyse these events<lb/> and to measure the observable signatures of deconfinement that may arise. Signatures<lb/> particularly related to strangeness production will be outlined and the capabilities for<lb/> such studies at ALICE will be discussed.<lb/></div>
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 12.38.Mh, 14.20.Jn, 14.40.Df, 25.75.-q, 25.75.Nq<lb/></keywords> 
		<keywords>Keywords:  high  multiplicity, deconfinement, strangeness, phi resonance, proton <lb/> collisions, heavy ion, quark-gluon plasma, ALICE <lb/></keywords>
		<introduction>1. Introduction<lb/></introduction>
    </front>
</text>
</tei>