<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="225"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">Machine Translation, 10:1-2, 139-180 (1995) <lb/>c 1995 Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston. Manufactured in The Netherlands. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Toward a Lexicalized Grammar for Interlinguas <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>CLARE VOSS</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>voss@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>BONNIE J. DORR</docAuthor></byline>
		<email>bonnie@cs.umd.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science, University of Maryland,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>College Park, MD 20742 <lb/></address>
		<date type="submission">Received September 1,1994; Revised July 15, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. In this paper we present one aspect of our research on machine translation (MT): <lb/>capturing the grammatical and computational relation between (i) the interlingua (IL) as defined <lb/>declaratively in the lexicon and (ii) the IL as defined procedurally by way of algorithms that <lb/>compose and decompose pivot IL forms. We begin by examining the interlinguas in the lexicons of <lb/>a variety of current IL-based approaches to MT. This brief survey makes it clear that no consensus <lb/>exists among MT researchers on the level of representation for defining the IL. In the section that <lb/>follows, we explore the consequences of this missing formal framework for MT system builders who <lb/>develop their own lexical-IL entries. The lack of software tools to support rapid IL respecification <lb/>and testing greatly hampers their ability to modify representations to handle new data and new <lb/>domains. Our view is that IL-based MT research needs both (a) the formal framework to specify <lb/>possible IL grammars and (b) the software support tools to implement and test these grammars. <lb/>With respect to (a), we propose adopting a lexicalized grammar approach, tapping research <lb/>results from the study of tree grammars for natural language syntax. With respect to (b), we <lb/>sketch the design and functional specifications for parts of ILustrate, the set of software tools <lb/>that we need to implement and test the various IL formalisms that meet the requirements of a <lb/>lexicalized grammar. In this way, we begin to address a basic issue in MT research, how to define <lb/>and test an interlingua as a computational language | without building a full MT system for <lb/>each possible IL formalism that might be proposed. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: interlingua, machine translation, lexicon, lexicalized grammar <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>