<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="254"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Real-time Communication in Multi-hop Networks <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Dilip D. Kandlur, Kang G. Shin <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Real-Time Computing Laboratory <lb/>Department of Elec. Engr. and Computer Science <lb/>The University of Michigan <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2122. <lb/></address>
		<email>email: kgshin@alps.eecs.umich.edu <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Domenico Ferrari <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Division <lb/>EE &amp; CS Department <lb/>University of California <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Berkeley, CA 94720. <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>Communication in real-time systems has to be predictable, because unpredictable delays in <lb/>the delivery of messages can adversely affect the execution of tasks dependent on these messages. <lb/>In this paper, we develop a scheme for providing predictable inter-process communication in <lb/>real-time systems with (partially connected) point-to-point interconnection networks, which <lb/>provides guarantees on the maximum delivery time for messages. This scheme is based on the <lb/>concept of a real-time channel, a unidirectional connection between source and destination. A <lb/>real-time channel has parameters which describe the performance requirements of the source-destination communication, e.g., from a sensor station to a control site. Once such a channel <lb/>is established, the communications subsystem guarantees that these performance requirements <lb/>will be met. In this paper, we concentrate on methods to compute guarantees for the delivery time of messages belonging to real-time channels. We also address problems associated <lb/>with allocating buffers for these messages and develop a scheme which preserves delivery time <lb/>guarantees. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Index Terms | Real-time systems, communication, scheduling, guaranteed delay, point-to-point networks. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="grant">The work reported here is supported in part by an IBM Graduate Fellowship and by the Office of Naval <lb/>Research under Contract N00014-85-K-0122. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations <lb/>expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the funding agencies. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>