<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="461"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">RESONANCE AND THE PERCEPTION OF <lb/>MUSICAL METER <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Edward W. Large <lb/>John F. Kolen <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>The Ohio State University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Many connectionist approaches to musical expectancy and music composition let the <lb/>question of What next? overshadow the equally important question of When next?. One cannot <lb/>escape the latter question, one of temporal structure, when considering the perception of musical <lb/>meter. We view the perception of metrical structure as a dynamic process where the temporal <lb/>organization of external musical events synchronizes, or entrains, a listeners internal processing <lb/>mechanisms. This article introduces a novel connectionist unit, based upon a mathematical model <lb/>of entrainment, capable of phase and frequency-locking to periodic components of incoming <lb/>rhythmic patterns. Networks of these units can self-organize temporally structured responses to <lb/>rhythmic patterns. The resulting network behavior embodies the perception of metrical structure. <lb/>The article concludes with a discussion of the implications of our approach for theories of metrical <lb/>structure and musical expectancy. <lb/></div>
		<note type="reference">Connection Science, 6 (1), 177 - 208. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>