<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1025"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Numerical simulations of oscillating soliton stars: Excited states in spherical symmetry and <lb/> ground state evolutions in 3D <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jayashree Balakrishna, 1 Ruxandra Bondarescu, 2 Gregory Daues, 3 and Mihai Bondarescu 4,5 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1  Harris-Stowe State University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>St. Louis, Missouri, USA <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>2 Cornell University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Ithaca, New York, USA <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>3 <lb/>  National Center for Supercomputing Applications,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Urbana, Illinois, USA <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>4 Max Planck Institut für Gravitationsphysik, Albert Einstein Institut,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Golm, Germany <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>California Institute of Technology,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>California, USA <lb/></address>
		<date>(Received 17 October 2007; published 16 January 2008) <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Excited state soliton stars are studied numerically for the first time. The stability of spherically <lb/> symmetric S-branch excited state oscillatons under radial perturbations is investigated using a 1D <lb/> code. We find that these stars are inherently unstable either migrating to the ground state or collapsing <lb/> to black holes. Higher excited state configurations are observed to cascade through intermediate excited <lb/> states during their migration to the ground state. This is similar to excited state boson stars [J. Balakrishna, <lb/> E. Seidel, and W.-M. Suen, Phys. Rev. D 58, 104004 (1998).]. Ground state oscillatons are then studied in <lb/> full 3D numerical relativity. Finding the appropriate gauge condition for the dynamic oscillatons is much <lb/> more challenging than in the case of boson stars. Different slicing conditions are explored, and a <lb/> customized gauge condition that approximates polar slicing in spherical symmetry is implemented. <lb/> Comparisons with 1D results and convergence tests are performed. The behavior of these stars under small <lb/> axisymmetric perturbations is studied and gravitational waveforms are extracted. We find that the <lb/> gravitational waves damp out on a short time scale, enabling us to obtain the complete waveform. This <lb/> work is a starting point for the evolution of real scalar field systems with arbitrary symmetries. <lb/></div>
		<idno>DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevD.77.024028 <lb/></idno> 
		<keywords type="pacs">PACS numbers: 04.25.D, 04.30.Db, 95.35.+d <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">I. INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>