<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Advanced Transaction Processing in Multilevel Secure File <lb/>Stores <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Elisa Bertino Sushil Jajodia Luigi Mancini Indrajit Ray x <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The concurrency control requirements for transaction processing in a multilevel secure file system are different from those in conventional transaction processing systems. <lb/>In particular, there is the need to coordinate transactions at different security levels <lb/>avoiding both potential timing covert channels and the starvation of transactions at <lb/>higher security levels. Suppose a transaction at a lower security level attempts to write <lb/>a data item that is being read by a transaction at a higher security level. On the one <lb/>hand, a timing covert channel arises if the transaction at the lower security level is either <lb/>delayed or aborted by the scheduler. On the other hand, the transaction at the high <lb/>security level may be subjected to an indefinite delay if it is forced to abort repeatedly. <lb/>This paper extends the classical two-phase locking mechanism to multilevel secure <lb/>file systems. The scheme presented here prevents potential timing covert channels and <lb/>avoids the abort of higher level transactions nonetheless guaranteeing serializability. <lb/>The programmer is provided with a powerful set of linguistic constructs that supports <lb/>exception handling, partial rollback and forward recovery. The proper use of these <lb/>constructs can prevent the indefinite delay in completion of a higher level transaction, <lb/>and allows the programmer to trade off starvation with transaction isolation. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Index Terms|Data management system, File system management, Transaction processing, Concurrency control, Two-phase locking, Exception handling, Security kernel, <lb/>Mandatory access control, Covert channels. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>