<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="472"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Symbiosis of Animation and Music <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>ROBERT E. PRINGLE BRIAN J. ROSS <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Brock University <lb/>Department of Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada L2S 3A1 <lb/></address>
		<email>frp94bg,brossg@sandcastle.cosc.brocku.ca <lb/></email>
		<date>December 12, 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The use of music as a means to automate the sculpting and movement of graphical objects is investigated. An interactive environment for producing musically-controlled <lb/>computer animations is presented. The graphical objects studied are based on Todd&apos;s <lb/>and Latham&apos;s work in evolutionary art. The environment permits the creation of kernel objects using an interactive toolset. In addition to a basic set of morphological <lb/>definitions, each object incorporates a script, which is an instance of programming <lb/>language code and data definitions. Scripts permit the run-time computation of object characteristics, and when done in a temporal setting, allow complex animation <lb/>control. The script language has a number of functions that can access MIDI information, as read into the system via a MIDI file. The practical consequence of this <lb/>is that animations are controllable with music data, in which music determines the <lb/>movement and morphology of animated objects. The tight integration of music and <lb/>animation in an interactive production environment such as this one has a number <lb/>of pragmatic consequences, ranging from the ability to automatically synchronize <lb/>complex activities to music, to the use of music as a creative source for graphical <lb/>sculptoring and animation. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: animation, music, MIDI, evolutionary art. <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>