<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="82"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">TIAS: A Transportable <lb/>Intelligent Agent System <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Kenneth E. Harker <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<note type="degree">Senior Thesis <lb/></note>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/> Dartmouth College <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Hanover, NH 03755-3510 <lb/></address>
		<idno>Dartmouth Technical Report: PCS-TR95-258 <lb/></idno>
		<email>iago@cs.dartmouth.edu <lb/></email>
		<date>5 June 1995 <lb/></date>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>In recent years, there has been an explosive growth in the amount of <lb/>information available to our society. In particular, the amount of <lb/>information available online through vast networks like the global <lb/>Internet has been growing at a staggering rate. This growth rate has by far <lb/>exceeded the rate of growth in network speeds, as has the number of <lb/>individuals and organizations seeking access to this information. There is <lb/>thus a motivation to find abstract methods of manipulating this online <lb/>data in ways that both serve the needs of end users efficiently and use <lb/>network resources intelligently. In lieu of a traditional clientserver model <lb/>of information processing, which is both inflexible and potentially very <lb/>inefficient, a Transportable Intelligent Agent system has the potential to <lb/>achieve a more efficient and flexible network system. An intelligent agent <lb/>is a program that models the information space for a user, and allows the <lb/>user to specify how the information is to be processed. A transportable <lb/>agent can suspend its execution, transport itself to a new location on a <lb/>network, and resume execution at the new location. This is a particularly <lb/>attractive model for both wireless and dialup networks where a user might <lb/>not be able to maintain a permanent network connection, as well as for <lb/>situations where the amount of information to be processed is large <lb/>relative to the network bandwidth. Preliminary work in the field has <lb/>shown that such agent systems are possible and deserve further study. <lb/>This thesis describes a prototype transportable intelligent agent system that <lb/>extends work already done in the field. Agents are written in a modified <lb/>version of the Tcl programming language and transported using TCP/IP <lb/>connections. Several simple examples demonstrate the properties of the <lb/>system. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1. Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>