<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="731"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Frangipani: A Scalable Distributed File System <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Chandramohan A. Thekkath <lb/>Timothy Mann <lb/>Edward K. Lee <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Systems Research Center <lb/>Digital Equipment Corporation <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>130 Lytton Ave, Palo Alto, CA 94301 <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The ideal distributed file system would provide all its users with coherent, shared access to the same set of files,yet would be arbitrarily <lb/>scalable to provide more storage space and higher performance to <lb/>a growing user community. It would be highly available in spite of <lb/>component failures. It would require minimal human administration, and administration would not become more complex as more <lb/>components were added. <lb/>Frangipani is a new file system that approximates this ideal, yet <lb/>was relatively easy to build because of its two-layer structure. The <lb/>lower layer is Petal (described in an earlier paper), a distributed <lb/>storage service that provides incrementally scalable, highly available, automatically managed virtual disks. In the upper layer, <lb/>multiple machines run the same Frangipani file system code on top <lb/>of a shared Petal virtual disk, using a distributed lock service to <lb/>ensure coherence. <lb/>Frangipani is meant to run in a cluster of machines that are under <lb/>a common administration and can communicate securely. Thus the <lb/>machines trust one another and the shared virtual disk approach is <lb/>practical. Of course, a Frangipani file system can be exported to <lb/>untrusted machines using ordinary network file access protocols. <lb/>We have implemented Frangipani on a collection of Alphas <lb/>running DIGITAL Unix 4.0. Initial measurements indicate that <lb/>Frangipani has excellent single-server performance and scales well <lb/>as servers are added. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>