<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1004"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<idno>arXiv:0908.0113v1 [astro-ph.CO]</idno>
		<date>2 Aug 2009 <lb/></date>
		<note type="reference">Mon. Not. R. Astron. Soc. 000, 000?000 (0000) <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">Printed</note>
		<date>2 August 2009 <lb/></date>
		<note type="other">(MN L  A  T E X style file v2.2) <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">S-Z power spectrum produced by primordial magnetic <lb/>fields</titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Hiroyuki Tashiro  1  , and Naoshi Sugiyama  23</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1  Institut d&apos;Astrophysique Spatiale (IAS),</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Batiment 121, Université Paris-Sud 11, Orsay, F-91405, France <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>2  Department of Physics and Astrophysics, Nagoya University,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Chikusa, Nagoya 464-8602, Japan <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>3  Institute for Physics and Mathematics of the Universe, University of Tokyo, <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>5-1-5 Kashiwa-no-Ha, Kashiwa, Chiba, 277-8582, Japan <lb/></address>
		<date>2 August 2009</date>
		<div type="abstract">ABSTRACT <lb/>  Primordial magnetic fields generated in the very early universe are one of the <lb/>candidates for the origin of magnetic fields observed in galaxy clusters. After recom- <lb/>bination, the Lorentz force acts on the residual ions and electrons to generate density <lb/>fluctuations of baryons. Accordingly these fluctuations induce the early formation <lb/>of dark halos which cause the Sunyaev-Zel&apos;dovich (S-Z) effect in cosmic microwave <lb/>background radiation. This additional S-Z effect due to primordial magnetic fields <lb/>amplifies the angular power spectrum of cosmic microwave temperature anisotropies <lb/>on small scales. This amplification depends on the comoving amplitude and the power <lb/>law index of the primordial magnetic fields spectrum. Comparing with the small scale <lb/>CMB observations, we obtained the constraints on the primordial magnetic fields, i.e., <lb/>B &lt; 0.7 nGauss for n = ?2.9 or B &lt; 0.3 nGauss for n = ?2.5 , where B is the <lb/>comoving amplitude of magnetic fields at 1 Mpc and n is the power law index. These <lb/>constraints are tighter than those from temperature anisotropies and polarization of <lb/>cosmic microwave background induced by the magnetic fields at the recombination <lb/>epoch. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key words: cosmology: theory ? magnetic fields ? large-scale structure of universe <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 INTRODUCTION <lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>