<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="227"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">GROWING RADIAL BASIS FUNCTION NETWORKS <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>E. BLANZIERI *, P. KATENKAMP ** and A. GIORDANA *** <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Centro di Scienza Cognitiva, Universita di Torino,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Via Lagrange 3, 10100 Torino, Italy.</address>
		<email>e-mail: <lb/>blanzier@psych.unito.it <lb/></email>
		<byline><affiliation>flfl Institute for Real Time Systems and Robotics, University of Karlsruhe,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Germany. <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>flflfl Dipartimento di Informatica, Universita di Torino,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>C.so Svizzera 185, 10149 Torino, Italy.</address>
		<email>email: attilio@di.unito.it <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract. This paper presents and evaluates two algorithms for incrementally constructing Radial <lb/>Basis Function Networks, a class of neural networks which looks more suitable for adtaptive control <lb/>applications than the more popular backpropagation networks. The first algorithm has been derived <lb/>by a previous method developed by Fritzke, while the second one has been inspired by the CART <lb/>algorithm developed by Breiman for generation regression trees. Both algorithms proved to work <lb/>well on a number of tests and exhibit comparable performances. An evaluation on the standard case <lb/>study of the Mackey-Glass temporal series is reported. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Key Words. Machine Learning, Robotics, Neural Nets <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 INTRODUCTION</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>