<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="793"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Constructing Logic Programs with <lb/>Higher-Order Predicates 1 <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jorgen Fischer Nilsson <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>Technical University of Denmark <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<byline><docAuthor>Andreas Hamfelt <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computing Science Department <lb/>Uppsala University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract: This paper proposes a logic programming approach based on the <lb/>application of a system of higher-order predicates put at disposal within ordinary logic programming languages such as prolog. These higher-order <lb/>predicates parallel the higher-order functionals or combinators which form an <lb/>established part of contemporary functional programming methodology. <lb/>The suggested toolbox of higher-order predicates for composing logic programs <lb/>is derived from one universal higher-order predicate. They take the form of <lb/>recursion operators (in particular for expressing recursion along lists) intended <lb/>to cover all commonly occurring recursion schemes in logic programming practice. Their theoretical sufficiency is proved and their practical adequacy is <lb/>argued through examples. <lb/>The recursion operators, denoting higher-order relations rather than functions, are brought about straightforwardly through a well-known metalogic <lb/>programming technique, rendering superfluous the need for special higher-order unification mechanisms. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: Relational higher-order and metalogic programming. Logic program recursion schemes. Declarative logic programming methodology. <lb/></keywords>
		<note type="other">Perche nessuna cosa si puo amare ne odiare, <lb/>se prima no si a cognitio di quella. <lb/>- Leonardo da Vinci, Notebooks <lb/></note>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction: Background and Ob jectives</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>