<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="1042"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Beyond institutional repositories <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>* Laurent Romary,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>INRIA (Gemo research group) &amp; Humboldt Universität zu Berlin <lb/> (Institut für Deutsche Sprache und Linguistik) <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<email>laurent.romary@loria.fr <lb/></email>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.inria.fr/recherche/equipes/gemo.fr.html <lb/></ptr>
		<address>Unter den Linden 6, 10099 Berlin -</address>
		<ptr type="web">http://www.linguistik.hu-berlin.de/ <lb/></ptr>
		<byline><docAuthor>Chris Armbruster,</docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Max Planck Society (Max Planck Digital Library) <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<email>armbruster@mpdl.mpg.de <lb/></email>
		<address>Invalidenstrasse 35, D-10115 Berlin -</address>
		<ptr type="web">www.mpdl.mpg.de <lb/></ptr>
		<byline><affiliation>Executive Director, Research Network 1989 -</affiliation></byline>
		<ptr type="web">www.cee-socialscience.net/1989 <lb/></ptr>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>  The current system of so-called institutional repositories, even if it has been a sensible <lb/> response at an earlier stage, may not answer the needs of the scholarly community, <lb/> scientific communication and accompanied stakeholders in a sustainable way. However, <lb/> having a robust repository infrastructure is essential to academic work. Yet, current <lb/> institutional solutions, even when networked in a country or across Europe, have largely <lb/> failed to deliver. Consequently, a new path for a more robust infrastructure and larger <lb/> repositories is explored to create superior services that support the academy. A future <lb/> organisation of publication repositories is advocated that is based upon macroscopic <lb/> academic settings providing a critical mass of interest as well as organisational <lb/> coherence. Such a macro-unit may be geographical (a coherent national scheme), <lb/> institutional (a large research organisation or a consortium thereof) or thematic (a <lb/> specific research field organising itself in the domain of publication repositories). <lb/> The argument proceeds as follows: firstly, while institutional open access mandates <lb/> have brought some content into open access, the important mandates are those of the <lb/> funders and these are best supported by a single infrastructure and large repositories, <lb/> which incidentally enhances the value of the collection (while a transfer to institutional <lb/> repositories would diminish the value). Secondly, we compare and contrast a system <lb/> based on central research publication repositories with the notion of a network of <lb/> institutional repositories to illustrate that across central dimensions of any repository <lb/> solution the institutional model is more cumbersome and less likely to achieve a high <lb/> level of service. Next, three key functions of publication repositories are reconsidered, <lb/> namely a) the fast and wide dissemination of results; b) the preservation of the record; <lb/> and c) digital curation for dissemination and preservation. Fourth, repositories and their <lb/> ecologies are explored with the overriding aim of enhancing content and enhancing <lb/> usage. Fifth, a target scheme is sketched, including some examples. In closing, a look at <lb/> the evolutionary road ahead is offered. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords <lb/>  Scientific information, publication repositories, institutional repositories, digital <lb/> libraries, research infrastructure, deposit mandate, interoperability, open access <lb/></keywords>
		<idno>hal-00399881,  version 1 -</idno>
		<date>29 Jun 2009 <lb/></date>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>