<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="583"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Geometric Matching under Noise: Combinatorial Bounds and <lb/>Algorithms <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Piotr Indyk Rajeev Motwani Suresh Venkatasubramanian <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Department of Computer Science <lb/>Stanford University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Stanford, CA 94305 <lb/></address>
		<email>{indyk,rajeev,suresh}@cs.stanford.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>The geometric point set matching problem in 2 and 3 dimensions is a well-studied problem with application to areas such as computer vision and pattern recognition, computational chemistry and other fields <lb/>such as cartography and computer animation. The basic problems can be formulated as follows. Given <lb/>some choice of a space of transformations and a similarity measure d(P; Q) for two point sets P and Q in <lb/>Euclidean space. <lb/>Problem 1 (Pattern Matching (PM)) Given point sets P and Q, where jP j = k and jQj = n with <lb/>k n, and an * &amp;gt; 0, find a transformation T for which d(T (P ); Q) * or return none if no such T exists. <lb/>Problem 2 (Largest Common Point-set (LCP)) Given point sets P and Q, where jP j = m and jQj = <lb/>n, K &amp;gt; 0 and * &amp;gt; 0, find a transformation T and a set P 0 P of size jP 0 j K such that jd(T (P 0 ); Q)j * <lb/>or return none if no such T and P 0 exist. <lb/>We restrict T to the space of rigid Euclidean translations and rotations. The similarity measures of interest <lb/>to us are: the exact metric 1 d E (P; Q) (binary-valued, requiring each point in P to be mapped to a point in <lb/>Q); the Hausdorff metric d H (P; Q) (maximum over all points in P of the distance to the nearest point in <lb/>Q); and, the matching metric d M (bottleneck matching distance). <lb/>A detailed study of this set of problems was initiated by Alt, Mehlhorn, Wagener, and Welzl [AMWW88]. <lb/>In this seminal work, they propose a suite of algorithms for the exact and matching metrics. More recent work <lb/>led to improved bounds for pattern matching and LCP under the exact metric. The problem of estimating <lb/>the minimum Hausdorff distance between two point sets in 2 and 3 dimensions has been studied extensively. <lb/>Clearly, any real application of such algorithms has to deal with the presence of noise in data, requiring <lb/>the algorithms to perform matching within the limits of some reasonable noise model. In fact, our interest <lb/>in these problems arose during an attempt to implement such algorithms for applications in computer vision <lb/>and in computational biology and chemistry, particularly rational drug design [FKL + 97]. We discovered that <lb/>noise present in real data rendered most known algorithms inoperative. In hindsight, this is not surprising <lb/>for, as noted in the survey by Alt and Guibas [AG96], these algorithms are likely to be &quot;difficult to implement <lb/>and numerically unstable due to the necessary computation of intersections of complex algebraic surfaces.&quot; <lb/>Worse still, they have unacceptably high running times: for example, even in R 2 , LCP under the matching <lb/>metric requires O(n 8 ) time, although under additional restrictions on noise regions the running times can be <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">This research is supported in part by a grant from Pfizer Central Research. <lb/>Supported by NSF Award CCR-9357849, with matching funds from IBM, Mitsubishi, Schlumberger Foundation, Shell <lb/>Foundation, and Xerox Corporation. <lb/>Supported by an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, an IBM Faculty Partnership Award, an ARO MURI Grant DAAH04-96-1-0007, and NSF Young Investigator Award CCR-9357849, with matching funds from IBM, Mitsubishi, Schlumberger Foun <lb/>dation, Shell Foundation, and Xerox Corporation. <lb/></note>
		<note type="other">1 We use the term &quot;metric&quot; only for convenience; formally, none of the above measures satisfy all the properties of a metric.</note>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>