<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="unknown"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Internet Routing Instability <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Craig Labovitz, G. Robert Malan, and Farnam Jahanian <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>University of Michigan <lb/>Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>1301 Beal Ave. <lb/>Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2122 <lb/></address>
		<email>flabovit, rmalan, farnamg@eecs.umich.edu <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>This paper examines the network inter-domain routing information exchanged between backbone service providers at <lb/>the major U.S. public Internet exchange points. Internet <lb/>routing instability, or the rapid fluctuation of network reach-ability information, is an important problem currently facing the Internet engineering community. High levels of network instability can lead to packet loss, increased network <lb/>latency and time to convergence. At the extreme, high levels of routing instability have lead to the loss of internal <lb/>connectivity in wide-area, national networks. In this paper, <lb/>we describe several unexpected trends in routing instability, <lb/>and examine a number of anomalies and pathologies observed in the exchange of inter-domain routing information. <lb/>The analysis in this paper is based on data collected from <lb/>BGP routing messages generated by border routers at five <lb/>of the Internet core&apos;s public exchange points during a nine <lb/>month period. We show that the volume of these routing updates is several orders of magnitude more than expected and <lb/>that the majority of this routing information is redundant, <lb/>or pathological. Furthermore, our analysis reveals several <lb/>unexpected trends and ill-behaved systematic properties in <lb/>Internet routing. We finally posit a number of explanations <lb/>for these anomalies and evaluate their potential impact on <lb/>the Internet infrastructure. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>