<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="142"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<note type="reference">To Appear: Proc. IEEE ICC&apos;96 Conference, Dallas, June 1996. <lb/></note>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">A Bandwidth Control Scheme for Connectionless ATM <lb/>Traffic with Multiple Traffic Classes <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Jorg Liebeherr Ian F. Akyildiz Debapriya Sarkar <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Computer Science Department, University of Virginia,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Charlottesville, VA 22903. <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>School of ECE, Georgia Institute of Technology,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Atlanta, GA 30332. <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>Hughes Network Systems, Hughes Network Systems,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Germantown, MD 20876. <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>A bandwidth control mechanism is proposed for ATM <lb/>networks that can control the usage of bandwidth in the <lb/>presence of both connection-oriented and connection-less traffic, as well as multiple classes of connectionless <lb/>traffic. The bandwidth control mechanism operates at <lb/>three levels. At the topmost level, bandwidth is dynamically regulated between connection-oriented and <lb/>connectionless traffic based on the utilization of each <lb/>traffic type. At the next level, bandwidth is controlled <lb/>between different classes of connectionless traffic, such <lb/>as real-time traffic, bulk data traffic, and so on. At the <lb/>lowest level, bandwidth is distributed among flows belonging to the same connectionless traffic class. <lb/></div>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction</div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>