<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="50"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">Shape Modeling with Front Propagation: A Level Set Approach <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Ravikanth Malladi, 1 James A. Sethian, 1 and Baba C. Vemuri 2 <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>1 Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory <lb/> and <lb/>Department of Mathematics <lb/> University of California,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Berkeley, CA 94720. <lb/></address>
		<byline><affiliation>2 Department of Computer &amp; Information Sciences <lb/> University of Florida,</affiliation></byline>
		<address>Gainesville, FL 32611. <lb/></address>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Shape modeling is an important constituent of computer vision as well as computer graphics <lb/>research. Shape models aid the tasks of object representation and recognition. This paper <lb/>presents a new approach to shape modeling which retains some of the attractive features of <lb/>existing methods, and overcomes some of their limitations. Our techniques can be applied to <lb/>model arbitrarily complex shapes, which include shapes with significant protrusions, and to <lb/>situations where no a priori assumption about the object&apos;s topology is made. A single instance <lb/>of our model, when presented with an image having more than one object of interest, has the <lb/>ability to split freely to represent each object. This method is based on the ideas developed <lb/>by Osher and Sethian to model propagating solid/liquid interfaces with curvature-dependent <lb/>speeds. The interface (front) is a closed, nonintersecting, hypersurface flowing along its gradient <lb/>field with constant speed or a speed that depends on the curvature. It is moved by solving a <lb/>&quot;Hamilton-Jacobi&quot; type equation written for a function in which the interface is a particular <lb/>level set. A speed term synthesized from the image is used to stop the interface in the vicinity of <lb/>object boundaries. The resulting equation of motion is solved by employing entropy-satisfying <lb/>upwind finite difference schemes. We present a variety of ways of computing evolving front, <lb/>including narrow bands, reinitializations, and different stopping criteria. The efficacy of the <lb/>scheme is demonstrated with numerical experiments on some synthesized images and some low <lb/>contrast medical images. <lb/></div>
		<note type="grant">fl1 Supported in part by the Applied Mathematical Sciences Subprogram of the Office of Energy Research, U.S. <lb/>Dept. of Energy under Contract DE-AC03-76SD00098 and by the NSF ARPA under grant DMS-8919074. <lb/>2 Supported in part by NSF grant ECS-9210648. <lb/></note>
		<pb/>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>