<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-054-02-0146"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">Parasites and Pattern Formation<lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>J. Ackermann and T. Kimer</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>InsdOite of Molecular Biotechnology (1MB), Department of Molecular Information Processing</affiliation>, <lb/></byline>
				<byline><address>Beutenbergsu-.l 1. D-07745 Jena<lb/></address></byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 54 a, 146-152 (1999); </reference>
				<note type="submission">received December 15, 1998<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">Biological informadon is coded in replicating molecules. To maintain a given amount of in- <lb/>
formarion a cooperative interaction between diese molecules is essential. The main problem for <lb/>
die stability of a system of prebiodc replicators are emerging parasites. Stabilization against such <lb/>
parasites is possible if space is introduced in die model. Complex patterns like spiral waves and <lb/>
self-replicating spot patterns have been shown to stabilize such systems. Stability of replicating <lb/>
systems, however, occurs only in parameter regions were such complex patterns occur. We show <lb/>
diat parasites are able to push such systems into a parameter region were life is possible. To <lb/>
demonsUrate diis influence of parasites on such systems, we inu-oduce a parasitic species in die <lb/>
Gray-Scott model. The growing concentradon of parasites will kill the system, and the cooperative <lb/>
Gray-Scott system will be diluted out in a well mixed flow reactor. While considering space, in the <lb/>
model stabilizing pattern formation in a narrow parameter region is possible. We demonstrate that <lb/>
die concenüadon of the parasidc species is able to push die system into a region were stabihzing <lb/>
patterns emerge. <lb/></div>
			<keywords>Keywords: Pattern Formadon; Reaction-Diffusion; Molecular Evolution; Parasites; Coevoluuon; <lb/>
Cooperation. <lb/></keywords>
			<div type="intro">1. Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
