<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-054-02-0110"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="de">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">Study of Water and Dimethylformamide Interaction<lb/>
by Computer Simulation <lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>Joao Manuel Marques Cordeiro and Luiz Carlos Gomide Freitas^</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Departamento de Fisica e Quimica, Faculdade de Engenharia de Ilha Solteira <lb/>
- UNESF</affiliation>, <address>CP 31 - 15385-000 - Ilha Solteira-SP, Brazil </address><lb/></byline>
  		       		<byline><affiliation>^ Departamento de Quimica Universidade Federal de Säo Carlos<lb/></affiliation>, <address>CP 676 - 13565-905 Säo Carlos-SP, Brazil <lb/></address> </byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 54 a, 110-116 (1999); </reference>
				<note>received November 19, 1998<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">Monte Carlo simulations of water-dimethylformamide (DMF) mixtures were performed in the <lb/>
isothermal and isobaric ensemble at 298.15 K and 1 atm. The intermolecular interaction energy <lb/>
was calculated using the classical 6-12 Lennard-Jones pairwise potential plus a Coulomb term. The <lb/>
TIP4P model was used for simulating water molecules, and a six-site model previously optimised by <lb/>
us was used to represent DMF. The potential energy for the water-DMF interaction was obtained via <lb/>
standard geomeU*ic combining rules using die original potential parameters for the pure liquids. The <lb/>
radial disU-ibution functions calculated for water-DMF mixtures show well characterised hydrogen <lb/>
bonds between the oxygen site of DMF and hydrogen of water. A structureless correlation curve <lb/>
was observed for the interaction between die hydrogen site of the carbonyl group and die oxygen <lb/>
site of water. Hydration effects on the stabilisation of die DMF molecule in aqueous solution have <lb/>
been investigated using statistical perturbation theory. The results show that energetic changes <lb/>
involved in the hydration process are not sttong enough to stabilise another configuration of DMF <lb/>
than die planar one. <lb/></div>
			<keywords>Key words: Monte Carlo Simulation; Solvent Effects; Statistical Perturbation Theory; Hydration <lb/>
of Peptides. <lb/></keywords>
			<div type="intro">1. Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
