<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-054-0607-0411"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">The Effects of Collisions with Neutral Particles on the InstabiUty of Two <lb/>
Superposed Composite Plasmas Streaming Through Porous Medium <lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>Mohamed Fahmy El-Sayed</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Faculty of Science</affiliation>, <lb/></byline>
				<byline><address>United Arab Emirates University, R O. Box 17551 Al Ain, U. A. E.<lb/></address></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Also at: Department of Madiematics, Faculty of Education, <lb/>
Ain Shams University</affiliation>, <address>Roxy, Cairo, Egypt <lb/></address></byline>
    	  			<note>Reprint requests to Dr. M, R El-Sayed</note>; <email>E-mail; elsayed@nyx.uaeu.ac.ae<lb/></email>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 54 a, 411^16 (1999); </reference>
				<note type="submission">received April 19, 1999<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">The effects of collisions widi neutral atoms on die hydromagnetic stability of the plane interface <lb/>
separating two streaming superposed composite plasmas of uniform densities in a porous medium <lb/>
are investigated. In die absence of fluid velocities, it is found, for a potentially stable configuration, <lb/>
that die system remains stable, while for a potentially unstable configuraion, the unstable system <lb/>
becomes stable under a certain condition of die wavenumber depending on the values of thc fluid <lb/>
densities, Alfven velocities, and die orientation of die magnetic field. The porosity of die porous <lb/>
medium does not have any significant effect on die stability criterion. In the presence of fluid <lb/>
velocities, it is found that, the instability criterion is independent of the permeability of die medium <lb/>
and die collision effects widi neutral particles. The criterion determing die stability does not depend <lb/>
on the permeability of the medium but depends on die density of neutral particles. The porosity of <lb/>
the medium is found to have a significant effect on bodi the stability and instability criteria in this <lb/>
case. The role of die permeability of the medium, die collisional frequency, and the porosity of die <lb/>
porous medium on the growth rate of the unstable mode is examined analitically. Routh's test of <lb/>
stability is applied to confirm the above results.<lb/></div>
	     	     	<keywords>PACS: 47.20,-k; 47.55.Mh; 47.65.+a; 52.30.-q; 52.35.-g.<lb/></keywords>
			<keywords>Key words: HydTodynzmic Stability; Flows dirough Porous Media; Magnetohydrodynamics; <lb/>
Plasma flow; Instabilities in Plasma. <lb/></keywords>
			<div type="intro">Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
