<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-035-05-0475"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="de">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">ESR-Untersuchungen an antiferromagnetischem CrN zum Einfluß <lb/> der Temperatur auf die Austausch-Wechselwirkung <lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>K. Dräger</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Institut für Physikalische Chemie, Universität Hamburg<lb/></affiliation></byline>
				<byline>und <docAuthor>R. Gerling</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
                                <byline><affiliation>Institut für Physik, GKSS-Forschungszentrum Geesthacht GmbH.<lb/></affiliation></byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 85a, 475—482 (1980); </reference>
				<note type="submission">eingegangen am 28. Februar 1980<lb/></note>
				<note type="english-title">ESR-Investigation on Antiferromagnetie CrN Concerning the Influence <lb/>
of Temperature on the Exchange-Interaction<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">The ESR-behaviour of antiferromagnetie and almost stoechiometric CrN is thoroughly inves- <lb/>
tigated above its Neel-point. For polycrystalline samples a spectroscopic splitting factor g =1.965 <lb/>
and a differential line width AB = 56,7 mT is measured at room temperature. All resonance <lb/>
lines exhibit Lorentzian character to a high degree. <lb/>
In the temperature range between 300 K and 520 K the ESR-intensity can satisfactorily be <lb/>
described by a model of local ordering. Its binding energy is computed to be about AE — 500 <lb/>
± 20 cm-1. A more refined analysis snows a systematic change of AE with temperature and a <lb/>
discrepancy between the Neel-point TN and the temperature Ts characterizing a singular be- <lb/>
haviour of the line width AB. Apart from these deviations originating in a magnetic ordering <lb/>
of the fourth kind, the cluster-model gives an isotropic exchange between next nearest neighbours <lb/>
of J% = — 33.2 cm-1. This result is confirmed by molecular field computations. <lb/></div>
			<div type="intro">Einleitung<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
