<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-035-01-0029"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">Mass Spectrometries Study of Rare Gas Compositions <lb/>
and Neutron Capture Effects in Yamato-74191 (L 3) Chondrite<lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>Nobuo Takaoka * and Keisuke Nagao **</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Osaka University</affiliation>, <address>Osaka 660, Japan</address><lb/></byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 35ft, 29—36 (1980); </reference>
				<note type="submission">received December 5, 1979<lb/></note>
				<note type="dedication">Dedicated to Prof. H. Hintenberger on the occasion of his 70 th birthday<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">The unequilibrated hypersthene chondrite Yamato-74191 was studied mass spectrometrically <lb/>
for rare gases released at various temperatures. Cosmogenic gases dominate in He and Ne. The <lb/>
meteorite contains large amounts of trapped Ar, Kr and Xe, and radiogenic ^Ar and 129Xe. <lb/>
Cosmic-ray irradiation and K-Ar ages were determined. <lb/>
In addition to spallogenic components of Kr and Xe, isotopic excesses of ^Kr, 82Kr, 128Xe and <lb/>
126 Xe relative to AVCC-Kr and -Xe were found. The ratio of ^Kr-exoess to 8aKr-excess is 2.66 <lb/>
after correction for spallogenic Kr. A correlation between 128Xe/1MXe and 129Xe/182Xe was found <lb/>
The i^Xe/i^Xe ratio for trapped Xe in Yamato-74191 was determined as 1.12 ± 0.29 with the <lb/>
correlation plot. <lb/>
The excesses found in Yamato-74191 are best explained by epithermal neutron capture on Br <lb/>
and I, and by the 127I(n, 2n/7) 126Xe reaction. Using neutron-produced ^Kr, the neutron slowing- <lb/>
down density was estimated to be 0.14 ± 0.03 cm-8 sec-1. <lb/>
A minimum mass and a preatmospheric radius was estimated to be 470 kg and 32 cm, respecti- <lb/>
vely. <lb/></div>
			<div type="intro">1* Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
