<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<tei>
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-035-07-0723"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">Investigation of Transient Dispersion and Absorption Phenomena<lb/>with a Bridge Type Superheterodyne Microwave Spectrometer<lb/>Measurement of T - Relaxation of S0 and OCS<lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>H. Bomsdorf, H, Dreizler, and H. Mader</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Abteilung Chemische Physik im Institut für Physikalische Chemie der Universität Kiel</affiliation><lb/></byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 85a, 723-730 (1980); </reference>
				<note type="submission">received May 191980 <lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">A bridge type superhet spectrometer for time resolved investigation of rotational relaxation <lb/>is described. Allowing the application of both Stark- and pump-modulation techniques the arrange- <lb/>ment may be used for single and double resonance experiments, showing a lot of advantages <lb/>compared with a conventional Stark- or double resonance-spectrometer. These features are dis- <lb/>cussed in detail. <lb/>By means of a MW-pulse method the following two-level experiments have been carried out. <lb/>The rotational relaxation time T% was measured by detection of M-unresolved transient emission <lb/>signals for J = 1- 2 of i«0 12 C 32 S, KK ) 1 ^ 3 ^ and 16()13C 32 S in natural isotopic abundance and for <lb/>eight transitions of SO2 up to J = 43. The signals of transient dispersion were detected and com- <lb/>pared with those of transient absorption. Their theoretical description in terms of the two-level <lb/>Bloch equations is discussed.<lb/></div>
			<div type="intro">I. Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
