<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-035-01-0115"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">1,2,4-Triazole Complexes VIII <lb/> 
Magnetic properties of cobalt(II) (l,2,4-triazole)2(NCS)2, a quasi two-dimensional <lb/>
canted S = J antiferromagnet, with XY-type anisotropy <lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>D. W. Engelfriet</docAuthor>, <docAuthor>W. L. Groeneveld</docAuthor>,<lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Dept. Inorganic Chemistry, Gorlaeus Laboratoria</affiliation>, <address>Rijksumversiteit, Leiden, The Netherlands, <lb/></address></byline>
                                <byline><docAuthor>H. A. Groenendijk</docAuthor>, <docAuthor>J. J. Smit</docAuthor> and <docAuthor>G. M. Nap</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
                                <byline><affiliation>Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratorium</affiliation>, <address>Rijksumversiteit, Leiden, The Netherlands<lb/></address></byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 35 a, 115-128 (1980); </reference>
				<note type="submission">received November 22, 1979<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">Co(trz)t(NCS)t has been investigated by means of magnetic susceptibility and magnetization <lb/>
measurements on single crystals in the temperature range from 1.1—300 K, heat capacity measure- <lb/>
ments from 1.5 —90 K, neutron powder diffraction at 1.2 K and ESR measurements on the Co- <lb/>
doped Zn compound at 9 K. The compound appears to have two-dimensional structural and mag- <lb/>
netic properties. A transition to an antiferromagnetically ordered state takes place at 7^=5.71 (In- <lb/>
susceptibility measurements along the three orthorhombic axes reveal a strongly anisotropic character. <lb/>
The b axis is found to be the preferred axis of antiferromagnetic alignment. The susceptibility data <lb/>
along b and the heat capacity results are in good agreement with the predictions for the quadratic <lb/>
layer, S=l, XY antiferromagnetic, with an intralayer exchange constant //=— 5.0(1)K. Below Tc <lb/>
the field dependent behaviour of the magnetization and the susceptibility along the a axis exhibits <lb/>
a transition at  1 kOe. Hidden canting is found to be present. The magnetic structure can be <lb/>
described by four sublattices with the magnetic moments lying in the a-b plane along directions <lb/>
that are at an angle of 7° with the 6 axis. <lb/></div>
			<div type="intro">Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
