<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="ZFN-A-035-01-0037"/>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:lang="de">
		<front>
			<titlePage>
				<docTitle>
					<titlePart type="main">Über die leichten Edelgase in dem Chondriten Kirin<lb/></titlePart>
				</docTitle>
				<byline><docAuthor>F. Begemann, 0. Braun und H. W. Weber</docAuthor><lb/></byline>
				<byline><affiliation>Max-Planck-Institut fur Chemie (Otto-Hahn-Institut)</affiliation>, <address>Mainz</address> <lb/></byline>
				<reference>Z. Naturforsch. 85a, 37—43 (1980); </reference>
				<note>eingegangen am 19. November 1979<lb/></note>
				<note type="dedication">Dedicated to H. Hintenberger on the occasion of his 70th birth<lb/></note>
				<note type="english-title">About the Light-weight Noble Oases in the Kirin H-chondrites<lb/></note>
			</titlePage>
			<div type="abstract">Results are reported for the contents of He, Ne, and Ar of three different specimens from the <lb/>
Kirin H-chondrite which, with a recovered weight of about 4000 kg, is the largest known stone <lb/>
meteorite. The concentrations of spallogenic gases cover a range of more than a factor of two; <lb/>
bulk samples with ratios 8He/21Ne, 2 and a FeNi nugget with 3He/38Ar = 8.8 ± 0.6 indicate <lb/>
strong diffusion losses of sHe from the silicates and oftritium from the metal. — Radiogenic <lb/>
4 
He and ^Ar have been affected by diffusion, too, resulting in discordant U/Th-4He- and ^K-^Ar- <lb/>
gas retention ages as well as distinctly different ages for different samples. Stepwise heating <lb/>
experiments show the main release of 4He and 4°Ar to occur at around 800 °C and the difference <lb/>
in the gas contents to be due to differences in the low-temperature part of the gas release curve. — <lb/>
An attempt is made to account for the observed positive correlation between the concentrations <lb/>
of spallogenic and radiogenic noble gas nuclides. Either the diffusion losses of both have occured <lb/>
at the same time which requires a (quasi-)continuous loss due to a small perihelion distance or a <lb/>
catastrophic event late during the cosmic ray exposure history, but more than about 10s years <lb/>
before the fall of the meteorite. As an alternative model it is suggested that the Kirin meteoroid <lb/>
was hot upon the ejection from its parent body. As the subsequent cooling rate of the meteoroid <lb/>
is smallest in the interior the diffusion losses of radiogenic 4He and ^Ar will be largest where <lb/>
the production rate of the cosmogenic nuclides is smallest. <lb/></div>
			<div type="intro">Meteorite sind vor ihrem Fall auf die Erde der<lb/></div>
		</front>
	</text>
</tei>
