<tei>
	<teiHeader>
	<fileDesc xml:id="315"/>
	</teiHeader>
<text xml:lang="en">
		<front>
		<docTitle>
			<titlePart type="main">From Ordinal to Euclidean Reconstruction with Partial Scene <lb/>Calibration <lb/></titlePart>
		</docTitle>
		<byline><docAuthor>Daphna Weinshall <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Inst. of Computer Sci. <lb/>Hebrew University <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>91904 Jerusalem, Israel <lb/></address>
		<email>daphna@cs.huji.ac.il <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>P. Anandan <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Microsoft Research <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>One Microsoft Way <lb/>Redmond, WA 98052 <lb/></address>
		<email>anandan@microsoft.com <lb/></email>
		<byline><docAuthor>Micahl Irani <lb/></docAuthor></byline>
		<byline><affiliation>Dept. of Appl. Math and CS <lb/>The Weizmann Inst. of Sci. <lb/></affiliation></byline>
		<address>Rehovot, Israel <lb/></address>
		<email>irani@wisdom.weizmann.ac.il <lb/></email>
		<div type="abstract">Abstract <lb/>Since uncalibrated images permit only projective reconstruction, metric information requires either <lb/>camera or scene calibration. We propose a stratified approach to projective reconstruction, in which <lb/>gradual increase in domain information for scene calibration leads to gradual increase in 3D information. <lb/>Our scheme includes the following steps: (1) Register the images with respect to a reference plane; this <lb/>can be done using limited scene information, e.g., the knowledge that two pairs of lines on the plane are <lb/>parallel. We show that this calibration is sufficient for ordinal reconstruction sorting the points by their <lb/>height over the reference plane. (2) If available, use the relative height of two additional out-of-plane <lb/>points to compute the height of the remaining points up to constant scaling. Our scheme is based on the <lb/>dual epipolar geometry in the reference frame, which we develop below. We show good results with five <lb/>sequences of real images, using mostly scene calibration that can be inferred directly from the images <lb/>themselves. <lb/></div>
		<keywords>Keywords: projective reconstruction, affine reconstruction, partial calibration, qualitative depth <lb/></keywords>
		<div type="intro">1 Introduction<lb/></div>
		</front>
</text>
</tei>